SPEAKER_00: Alrighty. Well, thanks everyone for coming back. We've done a couple of videos. So we've done two on the early days of Ethereum, and I actually did another video on identity following that, which you can check out on my channel. And in the process, we're excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwell. So, Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in-depth, you know, in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum, wrote a long blog post that, you should check out, and we'll link in the notes. And we asked him to join us here today to kinda dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro, and we can just kinda get into it.

SPEAKER_01: So, yeah, hi. You know, thanks so much for the invite. You know, like I said to you guys, you know, I love those first two videos. You know, I'll I I I love this history, and it was great to, you know, both hear that and and have, you know, a slightly different perspective as well. You know, our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So, you know, there are a few things that came up, which I, you know, I I I wasn't myself aware of. I mean, just for just for everyone's background about about me and who I am. So I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really, like, kinda jumped in. And that happened because I was I was working in Toronto. I had a six month contract. I was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainnet launch. And I'd actually met Vitalik for the first time in 2014, but, you know, just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything. But then moving to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude more stuff going on and, you know, meetups and, you know, Bitcoin decentral, coworking space and everything. So I got, like, really very addicted through that year, and it was like, right. I can't not get involved. Right? It's like it's like you're there at the birth of the web or whatever, and you've, you know, you've met Tim Berners Lee, and he's about to, like, go live on the web. And it's like, you know, how can you not, like, wanna get involved? So I just started sort of volunteering and helping. My background prior to that was in the games industry, so, like, fifteen years of C++ plus fifteen years of C++. So I was like, well, you know, I can I can do something with with C++ Ethereum? And then I ended up getting hired into the foundation in early 2016. And yeah, I've been involved on Ethereum Enterprise, Ethereum Hyperledger, then more recently, Ethereum Classic. It's nearly a decade now.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Bob, I I well, and to be open to everyone, like, we're old friends, and we're happy to have you as our first guest who's on this thing. But also, you are like, you know, the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum Ecosystem. You you're friends with everyone. You know? You got you've been in everywhere. So it's great to have your perspective on things.

SPEAKER_01: Thank you.

SPEAKER_02: So I and for as Karen has mentioned, for anyone who hasn't seen Bob's blog post, it's notionally a blog post, almost a full novel, probably a novella size. It has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about. Were those your personal pictures? It's just stuff.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, another thing here is there are a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well, which was there's one called Ethereum Foundation People and one called Ethereum Foundation Timeline. So I made those in late 2017, early 2018 because there was no canonical history of any of this. Yeah. It's like, how did Ethereum start? I mean, it's in people's heads. It's all secondhand stories that you hear from people who were around, but, you know, it's like, what's true, what isn't. Because I think, especially on that, like, foundation side, it was such a mess. Right? Just like all different people weren't getting on, blowing up, kind of like parity versus the foundation and Charles, you know, and they're like, god. What you know? So it I think some people had almost taken this position of, like, we don't talk about that. Right? Right. Just because anything I say, like, it's gonna offend somebody else. So just la la la. It doesn't matter that you know? But but yeah. So I started gathering that list of, well, you know, who were the people that were around in the pre-foundation days and then in those early years. And so, yeah, I've got this one page, this people page, which I think is really cool. Just it's got so that's basically from 2013 through to early 2018 identifying anyone that I could that was involved with Ethereum Free Foundation or who worked for the foundation in those early years. And one of the things that's really great there is Devcon Zero, which happened in, I think, October 2014. So that was the very first Devcon, but it was a closed event. That wasn't a public event. Yeah. And it was it was foundation people at that time, but there were also, you know, some other key community sorts of people there as well. And they did this one thing at the start that was introductions. So there's this video that's about fifteen or twenty minutes long of everybody, like, hi. I'm glad I'm here doing, you know, proof of stake research. Just see these these, you know, so young, so many people that, you know, like, early twenties Yeah. You know, and turning up, and it's like, that's, you know, that that's so and so. Right? And and some of these people as well, you know, they they they're not involved anymore. You know, they're they're they're sort of like footnotes in history, but but but you have that record. And so, yeah, that that that list of people I got I got all of that together, and the reason that that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, hey. I hear Ming's being sacked at the foundation. Like, do you know anything about this? Right. And I said, well, no. I don't, but it wouldn't surprise me. But, you know, basically, it'd be like Vitalik or maybe Hudson could tell you, but nobody else could tell you. Anyway and, know, it sort of came out. Well, yeah, she's, you know, she's not been sacked, but she's agreed to leave. Right. And then it's like, well, what's what's next? So I contacted Vitalik and said, you know, hey. Is there anything I can do to help? You know? What can I do? You know? And he said, well, the one thing you can do is can you, like, try and talk to people and work out, like, you know, what would good look like? Right. What do people think a good Ethereum Foundation would look like? And so that started my sort of adventure really of, right. I'm gonna go and talk to all the founders, all the other people, and try and work out, like, okay. So, you know, to my mind, Bing was terrible. So how did she get hired? Like, what was going on, you know, whatever, two and a half years back that that looked like a good option? You know? Like, what how how did it work before? You know? Like, what how did the foundation come about? And, like, what what were the group of leaders and, like, what were all the dynamics between all of these people? So, yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there, and that's that was the the the sort of the genesis for that information gathering. And I learned a lot. And that information as well I gave to Laura and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books is kind of like, right. There is no canonical, but this is kind of what I found, which is maybe, like, the best information that there was at that time.

SPEAKER_02: Well and also, it's to your point. It's that I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias about you know everything works smooth, but innovation is messy. You know, it's messy and it's like you know there are million and one different paths that things could have went to, and we just want to kind of acknowledge all that. Like, you know, given where the ecosystem is today, And even though, you know, it's amazing to me that so many people know about it, that, you know, I spent we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain and no one, you know, everyone just glaze over. Right? So it's just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point.

SPEAKER_01: went a little bit farther along. It took Blurred out. We'll just go with it. Yeah. One of the things that I know that the talent said, again, it was maybe in Laura Shin's book, was like the founding of Ethereum was very atypical because it was essentially here's here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested, and it's basically, like, first people that turn up right, your founders. Like, you know, a number of them, they've not even met each other before. They've, you know, not really a lot of knowledge. And so, yeah, like, there were lots of interpersonal things that just didn't work at all. It's just like no, like founding a company, and I'm sure you guys have, you know, have this experience yourself. Right? You wanna start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit because you know that you're going through the fire together. So, you know, you better have some stickability with you and, you know, common alignment or at least knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times. Right? You you know, that you know that you can work it out. Yeah. And what seemed to happen on Ethereum was absolutely the polar opposite of that. It's just random bunch of people who were there, didn't really know each other, like, make that commitment before you even know what you're even doing. Right? Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: That didn't work so great. And I think also Let me actually I wanted to ask about that. I'm also just looking at the list of the Ethereum Foundation people, which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was. You know, we talk about this because we're a management team, and we're trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to do and such. Do you think there is any benefits to this level of disorganization or just you know? I kind of think if there were, know, a benefit and it wasn't merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, It's kind of it embodied the ethos, and it let people like put the idea out there, and then people fought for its destiny. Like, Ethereum existed,

SPEAKER_01: yeah, and then they wanted to be part of taking it to and he saw this with the clients and all that too. Sorry, Jim. Go ahead. I was gonna say it kinda worked like a blockchain works, in fact. Yeah. Lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things, and then they fight it out. But what's that law that organization

SPEAKER_02: technology reflects the organization? Law, I think. So yeah, something like that. Like yes.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean, I guess in general, yes. You know, having that, like, frothing emergent stuff is good. I think where it was really screwed, though, was to do with money and the ICO funding. Right? That it's basically like okay here we're doing the thing and here the money is all actually in this organizational group. And the people in that group are being funded you know are in this privileged position. It it's something which Brian said to me in later years was it's sort of like the original sin of Ethereum is if you wanna have that kind of collaboration so, you know whatever stuff like the EA and Hyperledger or even just the rather looser protocol development around Ethereum you don't wanna pay one team and not the others. Right? Because that just screws that battlefield. So you have this situation for example where you got the C++ client you've got a Geth. You know, you did have the Python client as well so you have that good triangulation but it was essentially like the the funded ones were were C++ and Go. And then they had the money crisis of oh my god is this thing even gonna happen? Right. We've got cutscope C++ is gone Gab ends up going out of the way and then you have parity you know having one of the major clients but without funding So it's like Geth Oh Geth that's the favored child Right? You know that's the it's not like the official client but it is the official client So all that sort of separation of implementation versus specification in that free market around that was really skewed because the money was with Geth and Geth were in the foundation and they've got Vitalik's kind of blessing and everything. So I think that's where things were great because you did have the diversity but it wasn't fair diversity And I think if you look at what's happening now on the consensus clients for, I was gonna say ethereum two It's not called ethereum two anymore But you know the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients none of those consensus clients are made by the foundation The foundation doesn't have client teams They they do funding Like they got the grants and I think all of those teams are gonna be grant recipients So that's kind of centralization in a way but it is an even playing field in terms of development Right? Because you've got unevenness of funding and that wasn't the case, you know originally for Ethereum And I think that made a lot of bitterness as well because it's like well why do you guys get the money Like we're making another one as well or other parts of the ecosystem Like there wasn't a grants program for a number of years Yeah between about 2015 and 2018 there wasn't even a grants program You know you've got the foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars and teams couldn't even get funded for doing anything So so yeah I think the diversity is good but the money was bad

SPEAKER_00: Interesting. Yeah, I think alright Okay that's a it's a good strong point. So if you compare it to like a Bitcoin which I know less about the history of the development of Bitcoin but it was kind of similar There was no pre mine and no token presale And so the people who are in it were in it for general interest, and it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I I would argue you know in some ways Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin especially since 02/2015 Some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes and it's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way But but it's I think you know been stifled a little bit for that reason. I I think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner.

SPEAKER_01: Another major difference there talking about clients is it was a very deliberate decision, right on Ethereum to separate the specification from the clients Yeah And that there were multiple clients from day one. I've see if I can find my Twitter thread. I was finding these the other day. I was finding the first commits for PyEthereum, PyApp or PyEthereum as it was C++ Ethereum and Go Ethereum. And they were all I think they were all November or December. I think they were all 2013, not even 2014 for those three Yeah And then Ethereum j looked like it started in about April, I think.

SPEAKER_02: But you know that was Yeah Jim Karen you guys started Ethereum h in 2014

SPEAKER_00: Right Yeah we were much later We were

SPEAKER_03: When did we get the fourth quarter twenty fourteen Yeah That's Sounds appropriate.

SPEAKER_00: And I had worked on Ethereum just in the summer, so starting kind of maybe June 2014. I got to know the project pretty well. And then I'd I'd gone back to Berkeley. I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September October something like that, and we started work more or less right away. More Jim than me. But so yeah so there was a big time delay on on our side. And and yeah so there's an interesting point Right? I think probably they could have there was some real mismanagement at different times both with the running out of funds doing any hedging. And then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling, and that would have alienated fewer people, and it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously we're talking about a smashing success here but it it's sort of the idea and the community was so powerful that it you know there's definitely succeeded in in spite aspect I think there was value still in this like throw it out there get people to fight over it, but it probably overcorrected and lots of these people also just went and started their own thing

SPEAKER_01: because it wasn't the big enough time. I mean the other thing is right at the start there It's like well the people that doing it That was the whole world Right You know that was everything, right was several month I mean all of that early work on the clients actually was before the foundation even existed That was actually unfunded.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah

SPEAKER_01: Because I'm looking at the dates. So the white paper came out in November 2013 sorry, 2013. PyEthereum was started on 11/19/2013. Gav actually was in contact with Vitalik on that same day. C++ Ethereum started four days later, twenty third of December. Obviously some over Christmas hacking on these things going on. And then Go Ethereum was December 26 so just three further days. The foundation got formed I think in May or May 2014 but the crowdsale didn't conclude until September 2014 So you'd actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So make make you know I think I think that unfairness kinda came in a little bit later. I think for that phase it was like nobody got funded Oh sorry You know nobody got funded though there was the retrospective payback Right You know when when the crowdsale had gone through you had money for early contributors which I think I think that was nearly 10% Yeah For, like, a hundred and twenty people. Like some people made out absolute bandits for those early months But then yeah following that there was hiring of actual staff onto those teams And that I think is when it became kind of uneven because you already had a for a number of months there and that you know that that never got funded. And then you guys starting whenever you were starting So yeah it kind of became uneven, I think, at that point. And the probably the worst of it of all was for parity, you know when that team spun out and you basically did have a major rapidly load bearing client, and it was just you know unfunded especially in with Geth who was CTO and wrote the yellow paper had the first working client and all of the value he delivered And then it's like right sorry You're out and you're not getting any money. You know?

SPEAKER_00: Yes Do you so my memory around the c plus plus client was that there were funds to do a security audit for two clients but one at a time and it was tight Right Like And so they did go Ethereum first, and I think they did actually do the security audit on C++ Ethereum, but I'm not quite sure. I'm not They sure did You know mean Maybe

SPEAKER_01: maybe there'd been an intention to do that, but then the money ride ran out before it happened. My understanding in terms of uptake as well is C++ Ethereum was like working first, but then Go Ethereum just like caught up and overtook it really fast So when they were making those decisions on cutting funding which would have been mid 2015 It's like hey Gabby you're the CTO but it's your co co pays that's gotta copy it And then that's what happened And

SPEAKER_03: I mean I was sort of building the various clients quite a bit because I was trying to integrate with them at the time. And my memory was that the C++ client had all the newest stuff in it first So if I wanted to see something first I would go there But the Go client was more stable Like because they were putting so much stuff into the C++ client it was often in an unstable situation So even when C++ Ethereum as a client like died it didn't die within that testing suite for years It's like right Even though nobody's actually like running this or using it on mainnet or anything we've gotta keep maintaining that one because that's where the tests are coming from So yeah that frontline was really like leading across sol c the tests and C++ Ethereum You know all of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the gooey apps like with mix and Alice zero, Alice one five Like it took twenty four hours to build the bloody thing but that will be because it was all around Gav Right? You know Gav was leading all of that He was he was building that client He was writing the yellow paper He was working there with Christian and Christophe on that specification and testing stuff like that You know all of that was bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the gooey apps like with mix and Alice zero, Alice one five Like it took twenty four hours to build the bloody thing but that will be because it was all around Gav Right? You know Gav was leading all of that He was he was building that client He was writing the yellow paper He was working there with Christian and Christophe on that specification and testing stuff like that You know all of that was bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the gooey apps like with mix and Alice zero, Alice one five Like it took twenty four hours to build the bloody thing but that will be because it was all around Gav Right? You know Gav was leading all of that He was he was building that client He was writing the yellow paper He was working there with Christian and Christophe on that specification and testing stuff like that

SPEAKER_02: And wait So see the Solidity compiler That was part of that C++ group too Yeah It makes sense because it was written in C++ But yeah It was all under web three umbrella.

SPEAKER_01: Okay I remember web three umbrella. I remember the web three umbrella Yes So yeah web three umbrella was a Git repo with sub repos for f It was called f The executable You'd have f Again but yeah you had f You had sol c You had mix which was the original IDE Acute client Which was the gooey miner Yeah That's right So it's like here press the mine button and know? And then you had one which was sort of I guess it was like kind of a gooey client runner thing I can't remember the exact scope but but it was sort of like right You're running a node but you've got a gooey on it And I can't remember what it had but yeah whatever logs going by and I guess you could like fiddle with settings or whatever But yeah all of that was in web three umbrella That's a lot That that was a lot And all of the depend they were all really code oh test and the test as well Right Right Right But then they were all really codependent. I mean when I started one of the first things I did was like what are the dependencies on all of these Because you had like libraries with it as well It's like Lib Ethereum, Lib web three base

SPEAKER_00: Yeah Dev p two p Live p two p There were certain

SPEAKER_01: documentation all over the place. I mean You know? I think what had happened there that Gab was sort of trying to do, but it never came to fruition and then he lacked, was it's like right Let's try and make this modular Right We're gonna try and do a modular thing and pull apart the networking and the database and this and the other But it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these So you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway Like you couldn't mix and match because there was no versioning There was no interplace discipline on any of it You had to use all the latest ones together but then it was all split into separate repos. So it's like right You're making a change on one of them and then whatever updating the sub modules and like that wasn't atomic It was just a big old mess So yeah one of the first things I did was like you know work out infer infer a dependency diagram map a path to pulling it all back into a monolithic workspace doing like automated builds that we somehow didn't have and specifically decoupling and the tests from the client Right So for example because it was tied in with this full workspace it was literally a twenty four hour build It was like compiling Chromium from source twice compiling QT all of this stuff So just to get you know And and there weren't binaries available for Solsea either Like you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to compile you know a smart contract to do anything You have to do all of that So I remember after all that decomposition I got it so you could just do And you know that was a quick build And then I did like homebrew and it's like so you could do like brew install salsa and they did it in like five seconds And everyone's like oh my god This is not great It was my benefit It's amazing But yeah it was yeah it was a bit of a mess. I do remember waiting like

SPEAKER_02: you know many times trying to build things coming back looking at it saying like this can't be like my machine's gotta be broken because like it can't be this long Can't be like eight hours Like nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do You know but you're right

SPEAKER_01: You know talking about that creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated everything One of my first observations on joining the foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism because that seems in an organized way Well you're one of the baddies You know you're the status quo trying to subvert and take it over You know things as simple as like do we have technical leads that actually lead? Do we have any project management? Do we have any IT? Have anything? And it's like no It's just a jumble of people doing stuff And it's like oh how on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment But that was kind of the vibe as well That was seen as a good thing You know because it's because that's a defensive cultural thing Right You know we don't want this to be a Silicon Valley thing

SPEAKER_00: Yeah you know I just have a comment It's interesting and maybe I commented on this in one of the other videos One of these rare big software projects that did not very much come from The United States. It's Canada It's different parts of Europe You know And one of those confusing things Bob to your point about who got paid for the clients on the foundation I think like I remember there being a deal struck with Zug the the the Canton basically around it They were like there's tax stuff and all that sort of thing but they also sort of intended to hire and operate locally They would either move there or they'd hire ETH Zurich grads or whatever And I don't know the details specifically but I think that didn't quite end up happening that way in sort of as a surprise And I saw some of this firsthand at the meeting in which you know Charles were were you know sent on their way The the client team set up in their own countries and that was like a bit of a flip Like Gavin wanted to be in Berlin because the devs were good and expensive they'd be like living there You know inexpensive Excuse me And yeah I think it's just you know you would running my own business you would never make such a decision in such a flipped manner where like overnight we're like oh we're in a different country You know But they that was kind of a regular occurrence to some extent Major things changing you know as part of how the foundation plus sort of operated that I saw Again from our side you know we're sitting in the Bay Area at that time and we're like why do they keep doing all of these things Like they're trying to build a thousand things and it's hard to build one thing

SPEAKER_01: Yeah I mean there were separate legal entities for those as well Right So you have f dev AG in Berlin And then you know there was then there was an Amsterdam thing for the Geth team You had the London stuff as well which was mainly communications sort of stuff with Stefan and George Hallum Ian one other person who I forget But yeah so when I had my contract it was with the for profit in Berlin That was who I was actually working for and then they were funded by the foundation And and in general that was another big split that it was Right Was the you got the foundation but then you had that was like the kind of umbrella group for that that was leading essentially So I think the Amsterdam thing like rolled into Berlin I think that was also left side And that in itself was you know a huge item of conflict And with that Swiss people thing so my understanding on that was that was like a main motivation for getting renting that spaceship building Right Was the intention was that there were gonna be a load of people there but maybe it was tests testing was one of the ones I heard was maybe a goal there It's like right We're gonna get a load of Swiss people to test things And there's also Mihai with his ideas of these co working spacey things around the world

SPEAKER_02: And when and also to make it a little bit more willier Like very shortly consensus emerged out of that too and they were doing a bunch of work You know we were technically working under consensus for the first low parts of it too All of that was like everywhere So I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an ETC expert And in our last one we had a lot of questions around what we remembered from Slockit and the DAO hack So maybe you could walk us through that and you know how ETC emerged out of that That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn't follow much on you know how those pieces all came together

SPEAKER_01: Yeah So one of the groups or companies that came out of this kind of like shrinking of the foundation was that on that C++ team that got most of the cuts a good chunk of those people went to just went straight to parity and just carried on with our new client But Christophe who had been working leading that testing effort who were just talking about those same tests he and Stefan who had been community communication communications leader you know that sort of thing community stuff and left Eris who'd also been on C++ team Those three went off and formed a company called Slockit So Slockit being smart locks Just the idea that you you know whatever if you're doing an Airbnb or something that you can you know that you can have a smart lock and that you could go and do your contract with someone for the rental and then that could be enabling something on the lock that's checking an oracle or an on chain thing and so on And so that that product area At DevCon one they did an on stage demo That was it was like a pot of it was like a pebble Yeah I remember that It's like doing a transaction that turned it on to make a cup of tea Yeah Like that that was the on stage demo But what seemed to happen there was like they didn't wanna do an ICO They wanted it to be fairer I guess because around that era you know you saw lots of cash grab ICOs and it's like right Here's all the money up front You know we're not gonna live it What are you gonna do Right So so they didn't wanna do that you know because they were very genuine people who come out of the foundation and were kind of ideologically driven So Vitalik had written stuff about DAOs Right You know I think they were mentioned in the white paper even And it's like well maybe we can make a DAO So and I think that was just Slock It DAO really originally and it was like right We're gonna have a DAO The money is gonna go into there but then it's only gonna get released to us as we deliver milestones So it's kind of like this separation of Right the DAO is where the money is and that's controlled by the token holders Slock it as a company as a service provider into that But we're a stackable service provider and we're only gonna get paid as we go through the milestones So it's like oh you know that's really interesting Yeah And I to my understanding that's what was presented at DEFCON one Okay I remember It was like hey We'll lock it This is what we're doing and we're gonna do it down with it And it's like oh cool But then they kept working on that that DAO stuff after DevCon one and it just seemed to like warp into well we've made a DAO framework It's a DAO library you know because we want other people to be able to do this as well But then that sort of turned into well actually anyone could have a service provider You could propose anything into it And then it became the DAO

SPEAKER_02: Okay

SPEAKER_01: And it wasn't capped There was no cap on the contributions into it There was really nothing else that you could do on Ethereum at that point It was kind of like the first application Really Well I mean you did have a couple of things You had this gold thing You did have die think was sort of coming to life just about at that point but the DAO was kind of like the first big thing Right And it just sort of snowballed and snowballed Right Because it's like there was it was also touted as zero risk because you could exit with your funds Right If you didn't like the result of what was happening you could just exit and have your ETH back So it's kind of like this is risk free Right It's like a risk you know it's like a sovereign bond or whatever Right There's no downside here This is risk free Though tons of people are like well what else am I gonna do I'm just sitting here on me for I can't do anything Well you know pile on in And the Ethereum crowdsale raised what is 16,000,000 I think in Bitcoin which was I think it was number five crowdsale of all time You know Maybe the Dow will do 2 or 3,000,000 maybe five and it just went until it was you know it was just absolutely gigantic And I remember at the time thinking you know this is I don't like this Like DAO It's not this is not a good idea

SPEAKER_02: Yeah And

SPEAKER_01: and the main reason I was thinking of that was it's this a security Right Is this seen as money transfer stuff because you've got slot at the company and then they have this thing called DAO link that was sort of a service company for paying people in real life It was that was some at Swiss thing or or what's Bitcoin Swiss And then you have the DAO itself You have the curators as well So anyone could could propose a smart contract that encoded their proposal Right They they would make a written description of the thing and here's a smart contract doing it And the curator's role was like to verify yeah what they've sort of said in text is kind of what they've done It was meant to be like you know this kind of administrative role But what happened is all of those guys that was their name their names and faces up on the website Right So like DAO hub website is just like a who's who of the Ethereum Foundation basically Right And it didn't say Christian creator of Solidity It said Ethereum Foundation Vitalik Ethereum Foundation You know So lots of people were like this is an Ethereum Foundation project Right Because you you've all got your names on everything So I thought there was firstly there was huge like legal liability on those guys because where Slockit got these layers of legal protection these guys haven't They're just doing it as individuals Right And I remember Fabian talking to me and talking to the group in the foundation It's like you know I've been talking to some of my friends and they're like you know they don't think this is a great idea and I'm thinking of talking to a lawyer and a Gav back town A couple of weeks before the disaster Gav just backed out He's like you know this is you know this this is not what I signed up for I thought it was just a small role but now it's like presented as a lot more And you know so he he backed out A lot of the others didn't because because it was like well if we back out it's gonna like ruin it and it's like a great experiment But I thought there was huge liability to them I thought there were legal risks And I also just thought it was a stupid idea Like why would you have thousands of random people putting their money in a bucket and then let's vote on what to do with it Right Who who are these people Like what do they even know like about a business proposal or anything It's just like this is a stupid idea but you know I didn't have my eye on the fact that all of the tech stack was incredibly immature at that point Right Yeah There's no best practices There's no libraries It's just here's some code And and they just went all in Right It was like code is law Yeah Contract You know the smart contract is the contract You know YOLO you can't stop us Kaboom

SPEAKER_02: But but okay And then the hack happens Right And I remember the details of the hack being they found a flaw in the smart contract code and they could basically withdraw those funds into another account And Yep I remember there was some kind of race between like the people at the DAO slash Locket who are like using the same exploit to like drain the account like using the same hack basically Is that right Yeah So there was this reentrancy bug

SPEAKER_01: where it's really sort of like to do with atomic operations or order of operations So your reentrancy was that you could be calling because people were supplying their proposals and it's like hey Here's a smart contract that's implementing mine You were like calling into their code but you can't know what theirs is gonna do Mhmm So there was this reentrance issue where within that other person supplied code you could kind of call back in and it was sort of like so it was to do with child DAOs So this whole zero risk thing was like if you didn't like proposals that were happening you could make a child DAO of saying well hey I'm I'm out Right I'm taking my and my voting off into this other one Right I'm not following you I'm going there Another people could join you as well So I guess the idea was like right Here we've got this totally over general DAO but we're gonna make a DeFi DAO or an NFT DAO or whatever Right And and it's like I guess little bit like some of the thoughts for consensus and hub and spoke is like you know you're gonna get this universe of stuff just flourishing out and child down and and so on But yeah the problem on that on that child down thing is that there was this reentrancy bug where rather than just being able to pull your ETH or your share you can actually go in and pull more and more So you have this using this and a child down and pulling a giant amount of the funds into that child down And then within thirty days they'd be able to exit with the funds But but kind of the blessings I guess of that setup is they're not immediately exiting with the funds Right They haven't gone already and sold it on an exchange they're done before you notice You have got this period And then the other thing is that you could join them So after the hack you know there was this appeal out Hey did anyone participate in this specific child DAO Was anyone in there And it's like yeah Yeah somebody else is in there And then what you could do is you could go into the child DAO as well It's like you could do it another one It's like like what I'm gonna grab it off you and you're gonna grab it off me And so you know you could have this this DAO wars thing of like you can never stop it but you could delay it indefinitely So that was one of them But then the other white hat thing is like okay Well we know about the bug so we can do it too You can have white hat people like well we're gonna seal all of the money out of the top out of the top DAO as well but we're doing it for good Right We're we're we're doing it here to give it back Right So so yeah you had all of those games going on within that existing setup But then as a reaction to that you had all of this discussion about Well are we gonna react Are we not gonna react First the first proposal was a soft walk but you know it was just gonna blacklist out stuff to do with the hacker Right And they did do that soft fork Right I remember they did that soft fork first and then they did done for it and I think it might even have gone on test nets and things but it never went live Okay Because it was spotted that it was a denial of service attack Got it Because that blacklisting was like you know not accounted for in the cryptoeconomics So it was like yeah Yeah you had a denial of service attack thing on that soft fork So it got done and then it got undone And then the hard fork was like okay Well we can go in and do an irregular state transaction where at a certain block you know you're just gonna have a hard coded thing which sticks different bytecode into the address of the DAO Which is like okay Yeah That thing it didn't happen You know what's actually at that address is a simple refund thing where you can all get your money back So so that was our hard fork Okay And that's

SPEAKER_00: I just wanted to ask where were you at this time Because I know you got involved I believe later with ETC because it didn't exist yet And so you know how in terms of your personal perspective on all this we're actually implementing anything yourself because obviously you've got pretty deep knowledge of the technical internals

SPEAKER_01: Yes What what are you doing I was working for the foundation I was on C++ team at that point You know this is about three or four months after I'd started The thing that was really interesting to me was how different people's thoughts or perspectives were even within the foundation You know That you'd have people say working on gas going well of course we shouldn't do anything Well of course we should And it's like you know been working with you for a year Like what What you think that Like woah You know you have this real mixture of reactions and I mean my first reaction was well of course you don't do anything Like it's an immutable blockchain That's the whole point Like you don't like the outcome Well tough titties You know you've seen so many You know like You didn't have the Bitcoiners going all that Let's let's try and fix this up or you know And I think the only reason it happened was because of the scale of it a significant chunk of the entire ETH money base And also I think things weren't super great on funding and Ethereum wasn't sure to succeed It was quite nascent at that point Yeah And I know there were also worries about the proof of stake transition and the fact that if you had a large amount of hostile hands you could maybe have years of greeting attacks and stuff like that But also I think there was just you know a lot of people were like well you know this is theft Right You know that money was intended for building the ecosystem and some guys come in and stolen it And if we can fix that Well we should So yeah I mean my immediate reaction was you shouldn't but I also it was like well whatever That seems to be the consensus that we do it you know and okay Off you know off we go Though I wasn't at the foundation many more months after that anyway But you know there was this real schism though I think from what I saw I think probably about 85% of people wanted to do the hard fork And 15 didn't or maybe eighty twenty But I think there was pretty strong consensus to do it but that was very contentious for a not tiny group of people You know That a lot of people that had got involved with Ethereum have done so because they kinda wanted smart you know Bitcoin with smart contracts And if you're about bitcoin y mindset then like of course you don't you know don't screw with things But I think there's also this larger group that were like well ether isn't money anyway Like that was a messaging that had been given out at the time It's like no No it's fuel Right It's fuel for the engine Though I think part of that is just trying to dodge legal liability But but you know that was also true as well You know this whole world computer Here's a platform Right You know it's a platform like the web or Android So I think it was sort of like that mental split It's like is it money And if it's money you don't move people's monies without private keys Like you know that's that's a mortal sin And on the other side you're like well no It's a bug Right? It's a bug in the platform And it's like Well but it's but it was a bug in the smart contract Well if you've worked on serious software projects You know people hack shit on the wrong layers all the time Right Because it's gonna give you a better user experience Like you know you don't have to be pure on that It's really about how the thing works So you get hacks in the wrong layers all the time And if if you're just seeing it as a software platform Then yeah it's a bug You fix the bug

SPEAKER_02: So it's rare in life that you can actually see a counterfactual but in this case we can because ETC was created at that time and kind of emerged out of that So like you know can you talk a little bit about that and how has that gone Because you're deep into that ecosystem obviously as the director of the Ethereum Classic Cooperative Like how does it work now Like you know what how did those words divide And then you know how are those words continuing

SPEAKER_01: So over that month or so right where it's like the money's been stolen into the child down but we're gonna do anything You know you have the most vigorous debate on all platforms Right You know it was the topic You know what's gonna happen How's it gonna go and everything Right So I don't think there's anyone that was like unaware of this stuff happening You know it's very very everyone with their eyes open But yeah you just you just have this group of people kinda gathering together and it's like no We're not gonna go with it This is not gonna happen Or or at least like you know we're not following the hard fall Maybe people do but you know a bunch of people deciding not to The other thing I thought was really interesting at the time and was to my mind the best thing of all about that chain split is to that point I don't think there'd ever been a minority chain that survived Right The standard thinking is like you're gonna have a winning side and a losing side And you know it's gonna happen and we'll see where the thing you know where are the people going which is the winner and then the losers You know Well you know like people will stop mining It will just die Right Because it's the loser chain There's no economic value there and forget it But what actually happened on the ATC side is you had miners that were like well just gonna keep on mining I'm not updating you know some of it going evil Ethereum Foundation and talent's a dictator You know I mean I don't think any of that's true But you had got people that were like no I'm gonna keep going And then oh look block production's still going and you know it's still happening there And then listed it and then it's got a market value and then you've got speculative activity around that You've got ether holders like hey It's free money But also you've got other people on the other side going well you know I see real value here and this ETC is going cheap So you know noticeably notably Barry Silver who first non Yep In Ethereum to that point presumably based on pre mine and various other things but was like well oh actually an immutability focused ETC you know would be really interesting So yeah you just got this sort of grassroots thing forming You got volunteers jumping up saying hey I'm a developer I'll keep maintaining the classic Geth clients and so on And you know it found its own legs that you had like the Ethereum subreddit was like a primary communication platform at that point and then you had an Ethereum Classic one you know being created and some people in one side some on the other But you know it got quite bitter in the end Right You know you've got a lot of people that were like well foundation you guys either just ruined yeah you've just ruined the project And you had people on the other side seeing is seeing ETC as really illegitimate you know as saying well look you know it's just a money grab You just want your free money You know why are these Bitcoiners kinda coming over They weren't interested in Ethereum before and now they are Like that's not good And and you did obviously have a bunch of speculators in there so that's sort of a bit nasty too But I think the thing that like set up those communities finally was this 100% f meme which came about because somebody tweeted hey metallic I hear that you're working on Ethereum Classic Is there any truth to this And he said no You know I'm only working on Ethereum And the person then said well what if ETC had more market cap than Ethereum And he said no I still wouldn't work on it 100% half Like he wasn't saying it in a purity pledge way He was just in the way he does being just making a factual statement But then I remembered Joe replied you know I'm a 100% half And then it became everyone's doing it Right It's this purity pledge You know Everyone is expected to, you know, pledge allegiance to ETH So it became oh shit Is this an either or Like you can't be in both If you if you you're interested in ETC then you, you know, you're a dirty person So I think that really wedged it permanently apart at that point And also, you know, a number of the people that were volunteering on ETC, you know, they were really angry. They were like well I, you know, been involved for two and a bit years in this project, you know, really pumped about everything that you can do with Ethereum, and then you guys have, you know, have wrecked it. So there was a lot of bitterness from that ETC side back. But then, you know, things kind of split apart, and over time, ETC found its own path. So the real differentiation being well firstly, the DAO hack didn't happen. That was the only initial difference. Very rapidly though, there was this conclusion that fixed economic policy was needed. You know, the ETC was really like Bitcoin with Ethereum technology but, you know, Bitcoin culture and ethos. Right? So it's like right. There's no fixed monetary policy for Ethereum. And, I mean, you see this over many years. There's, like, change of block rewards, ice age, delays, fee burning, you know, many, many changes. So that was the first kind of major change on the ETC side was introduction of that fixed monetary policy because there was consensus that that was important to fix. And the other thing that enabled was the Grayscale ETC fund. So at that point, it's like right. Okay. This is really a Bitcoin feeling thing, and there's a feeling that there's value here. So then from that, Grayscale then created the EC cooperative that I work from. You know? So a share of the fees went into that kind of not quite a foundation but a bit like a foundation, you know, nonprofit to support the ecosystem. And then the other thing more recently is just proof of work. You know, there was fairly rapidly a consensus that he just wanted to stick with proof of work indefinitely, but that proof of state was seen as a centralizing oligarchic kind of thing that didn't really fit with that ethos. But more generally, ETC is tracking protocol changes in Ethereum, you know, very compatible.

SPEAKER_02: So there have been forks but not the hard fork along the way Although you need to so the yeah I mean they've

SPEAKER_01: hard forks but not chain splits.

SPEAKER_02: Got it Okay.

SPEAKER_01: In the old protocol updates on Ethereum as well, you know, they're all hard forks and the old side doesn't actually go away. You could run a frontier node if you wanted. You can mine on Frontier, mine the Olympic test net, mine any of these ones. It's just it's just you have had the wither and die because there hasn't been contention. But on ETC, you have sufficient contention that you had a chain split. But yeah I guess that's a sort of a Bitcoin thing is saying forks are bad Right But it's like conscientious hard forks are bad Hard forks are an upgrade mechanism for the protocol.

SPEAKER_03: Got it Yeah I mean I remember I had to implement that fork a few years ago and and it was pretty blatant It was just like take money from here and place it here By the way it didn't bug me But but we had people in red block apps who thought of it as like a stab to the back They were like so upset by it

SPEAKER_01: Well I mean it's literally here's an array of addresses right to fuck with.

SPEAKER_03: Yep I remember that was I don't remember what else was in there but I remember like the majority of it was just take a bunch of money and put it into these addresses and that was the fork

SPEAKER_01: Yeah You know for this list of addresses replace you know it was yeah You know replace the bytecode with this other bytecode And also yeah move I think the moving was consolidating the child down So I think that's what that was doing So it's like move the money from the child DAOs back into the parent DAO and change the bytecode Like I think if block equals this do a horrible thing

SPEAKER_02: But in the ETC world where the Dell hack happened are those funds Did the hacker pull out those funds Did okay So like

SPEAKER_01: Yeah Interesting Yeah I mean again Laura has a great write up of all of this in her book, The Cryptopians, including working out who it probably was.

SPEAKER_02: Oh wow Okay Wow So

SPEAKER_01: she didn't name names in the book but then she did a an article like on the release day or just before naming who she thinks it was. So that's an interesting story I can I'll I'll dig out that article and send it to you guys so you can add it to the description here.

SPEAKER_02: Cool And but you know Bob you're a natural born bridge builder As we said you get along with everyone Do you ever see the valley between Ethereum and Ethereum Classic narrowing or getting better or do you think it is getting better

SPEAKER_01: I mean the problem that Ethereum Classic has always had from the time of the split, and it comes back to money again. Like I think that was the one thing the foundation did wrong. Not not talking about the developers or the decision on that or whatever was to only put the money on one side because what that did is disenfranchised a good chunk of people who had invested in the presale, who'd been part of that community, who'd genuinely been actively involved for those first two years, and they were just left in the dust. It's like fuck you guys We don't care what you think Goodbye Right And the trademark's going this way and all the funds are going this way and obviously the foundation can control that what people choose to work on But what that meant is effectively that group of people got defunded. Like totally done You I'm sorry my child I I disavow you and I'll kick you out of the house you know forever And I wish I'll never talk to you again Right And in retrospect it should have been okay Funding is available for that other fork as well And you may hate us you know and not wanna talk to us I guess it's like a child you know whatever teenager I'm acute and I'm leaving home It's like okay But I'm not gonna stop putting aside savings and money for you I you know you might not love me now but you know I'm your child too and we'll we'll find a way of making it happen Right Because with the EC cooperative when that came into existence the foundation could have gone well Okay Here's a body that can help And there you go We're gonna fund it as well And that there was something a little tiny bit like that with Virgil. So Virgil was also a huge bridge builder between Ethereum and Ethereum Classic. In 2018 he invited Anthony Boussardy, who was my predecessor to speak at Adcon. So this was May 2018 and that was the first Ethereum Classic talk at an Ethereum event you know being nearly two years at that point And it was fine and it was cool everyone was friendly and various others came to that talk and around that time Virgil they somehow they found some ETC that the foundation still had. Generally they did a market dump at that time but there was some stuff that they found so it's like $50 or something like that And we got that donated to the co op which was Great That was a really nice kind of thing But really I think that was a real failing because it was a legitimate irreconcilable difference. But but it was made even worse by this 100% purity pledge combined again with all the money's gone So you end up with a very small community mainly people who are very ideologically outraged by it If you've got speculative token holders obviously they're gonna stick with Ethereum You know what's this other thing this new thing and there's nothing you know So so that's always been the issue that ETCs had is lack of money and interest really. More recently we've had support from Bitmain After the merge with Ethereum moving to proof of stake all of a sudden ETC is one of the larger mining ecosystems So all of a sudden we're very aligned with Bitmain They wanna sell ASICs they wanna be using Ampull for mining So so they're supporting a grants program now But yeah you know ETC is small but you have some people and that's what they want

SPEAKER_02: Yeah And as you said like you know it's broken mode of side chain surviving Right Like it real like you know these it it's possible You know? I had oh sorry Go ahead Karen I wanted to talk quickly about

SPEAKER_00: you know the definition of success for blockchains market caps and all that sort of thing And I was looking today because so Ethereum's market cap is in the 200 billions Ethereum Classic is still at number 28 which is quite impressive and is you know 2600000000.0 in market cap I think market cap is probably more of an indicator of popularity than anything rather sort of truly long term You know it's not quite like with companies where market cap is probably a better indicator of how important they are but it is also still Yeah So it's very liquid

SPEAKER_01: If you look in CoinGecko so Ethereum Classic is higher than Cosmos than Filecoin than Hedera than Internet Computer than ATTOS than Lido than Near than Optimism than Arbitrum than The Graph You know?

SPEAKER_00: And so I wanted to follow you know is market cap a good goal What what is your goal for ETC If you were trying to make up the gap with Ethereum what would you do differently

SPEAKER_01: I mean I think to do that you just need vast investment into application layer I mean I think that's somewhere where ETC really can't compete with many other VC chains you know that have huge treasuries that can be spending you know tens or hundreds of millions on grant programs You know That's you know we can't compete that way But also it as you say is a bit of a vanity metric in a way Like there are many other vanity metrics that we come into see in the space because yeah if you want whatever the fastest chain or the most money or whatever like yeah that's not gonna be ETC Like it can never be ETC But for people that are interested that's not the goal Right They they're they're they're looking for something which is basically like Bitcoin plus smart contracts with that kind of strong nonintervention kind of bias And also proof of work a lot of people see real value in proof of work and are very skeptical of proof of stake systems So you know it's not a winner takes all

SPEAKER_00: It's been interesting just how not a winner takes all the blockchain space has been. They've they've had this they're like cockroaches. They just kinda keep going I know they get delisted occasionally but you know how many let's see how many pages you can get to on YouTube Can we call them tree clippings

SPEAKER_02: instead of Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: 20,000 is the big. Yeah 20,000 live chains.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah

SPEAKER_00: That's that's quite a number and very interesting kind of in and of itself Victor you were saying something when I made my comment Oh no No I was just saying I

SPEAKER_02: was gonna ask you more questions about the early days of EEA but I think we will have to invite you back because I'm pretty sure we could have another ninety minute conversation on that. But it's been great to have you, Bob. As always, you're always been a great friend and a wealth of information on the space. So thank you for joining us, and we hope you'll come back again soon.

SPEAKER_01: Well, thank you, and sorry for monopolizing

SPEAKER_00: me No This is exactly what it is. Why you're here Yeah We Exactly Your story we've told plenty of ours Should we send people anywhere Where can people find you Do you want them to find you etcetera?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah I can drop you some links afterwards But yeah my own website is bobsandworld.com. Ethereumclassic.org is the main sort of landing page for ETC.

SPEAKER_00: Awesome Fantastic Well, thank you very much. Really appreciate your time And Yeah I'm sure we will follow-up We'll put our heads together and

SPEAKER_02: do another one when we're ready There's plenty there's plenty more stories that we haven't even touched on yet.

SPEAKER_01: Okay Care Cheers guys Alright Cheers