SPEAKER_02: Yes. I can.

SPEAKER_00: Excellent.

SPEAKER_02: Happy Strat out spaces. GM.'Sup, guys?

SPEAKER_03: How are you?

SPEAKER_02: I'm good. September. I'm not sure if it's officially the first week of fall, but, nevertheless, super excited for a new month. I know at Strata, we have a very exciting month ahead.

SPEAKER_03: I think, technically, fall starts on the either twenty-first or twenty-second, but spiritually, it starts after Labor Day, of course. I don't know if anyone has a white suit, but you can I actually sort of have a white suit, and you can no longer wear those already?

SPEAKER_02: Might might have to see that. That that white suit's pretty nice.

SPEAKER_03: I may have a photo. I think it's been worn to two sort of summer weddings, and that's the only time it's been. But I could probably dig one up for you, Jamie.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Text your welcome. Oh.

SPEAKER_03: We we had him. We lost him. We had him.

SPEAKER_02: Give it a give it a few more minutes for some more folks to pile in. Yeah. Yeah. Spiritually, fall is here along with football to the behest of our European counterparts.

SPEAKER_03: By the way, for spaces resiliency, Chat GPT is recommending two cohosts upfront. Now do we already have the two, or can you add another one? Yes. You

SPEAKER_02: and Bob are cohosts.

SPEAKER_03: Okay. It just appears as speaker to me. Maybe it appears as cohost to Bob on Bob's side. Bob, are you a cohost successfully? It appears. So I see it now. K. Fantastic.

SPEAKER_01: Can you hear me?

SPEAKER_03: Wait. Very, very kind of cool August. For for those of us who spent some of it in New York, like, August is supposed to be hot, and it mostly wasn't. Like, the there's supposed to be a sharp transition heading into the fall, but it feels like it kinda started early this year. I don't know what's going on.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Completely agree. A lot of long sleeves and sweatshirts during the night. Bit cooler.

SPEAKER_03: You guys are old. Guys are old.

SPEAKER_01: Been around talking about the weather.

SPEAKER_03: We're waiting for you.

SPEAKER_01: Well, I'm here.

SPEAKER_03: Even better. Welcome.

SPEAKER_01: What's up?

SPEAKER_02: GM. Yeah. Great. Great to kick this off. I'll I'll hand the mic over to Bob, but I just wanna pay my compliments to your PFT texture. It's it's quite the go quite a good one. So welcome. You

SPEAKER_01: own a texture pump?

SPEAKER_02: I do not, but I saw a few folks with them and obviously noticed yours. So Yeah. Might might have to might have to It get

SPEAKER_01: was a joke because I thought punks were ugly, so I made myself a better one. And then a friend asked me to make her one, and then somebody else asked me to make one. And then, like, 30 people later, I was like, I should just fucking make a little thing where they can make their own. And then then then my buddy started a Discord, and 10,000 people showed up, and I was like, fuck.

SPEAKER_02: That's some good lore. That's some great lore right there.

SPEAKER_01: I thought it was gonna be me and my 100 friends.

SPEAKER_00: Accidental success. Fantastic. Mhmm. Great. Alright. Well Yep. Let's get going, So Let's do it. High-tech, Jim.

SPEAKER_01: I haven't heard of you? It's been a while. It's been a long time.

SPEAKER_00: Always good to hear. When I think of you, the first thing I think of is love. Aw. And something I'd spotted going through making my notes is your medium is called peace, love, revolution. Yes. So what's the story there?

SPEAKER_01: So, you know, I was kind of I wouldn't say a hippie. I didn't dress like a hippie. Didn't really hang out with hippies, but I I took some psychedelics. And when I was a kid and I had some experiences and, you know, kinda drove my passion for, you know, doing good things and spreading love in the world. I I know people that probably follow me are like, what the fuck? He just calls people retards all day. Yeah. But, I mean, I'm on Twitter. I don't know. It's full of retards. So I started this group called peace love human because I was, like, sitting in a shitty basement apartment in San Francisco, and I was watching the news, and I was seeing how religions got all fucked up. And I was like, what if there was, like, a religion that didn't have any beliefs? And we just went out and did nice shit. So for, like, three years of my life, I was just, like, homeless and had no job and wanted the earth setting up, like, free hug or events and, like, other stuff just to make people smile. Because, like, you know, making people feel loved or making people happy was not, like, a quantifiable metric, but making people smile was. So that was that was what I did for my early twenties. So that's what I was doing then. Community building. I accidentally started a cult. And when I realized that it was a cult, I shut it down.

SPEAKER_00: Okay.

SPEAKER_01: But it it helped me. You know, it was my first foray in the cult building, which obviously Right. Very useful. I took into my role in Ethereum, and I don't feel like the Ethereum cult is going pretty well.

SPEAKER_00: I seem to remember at some point you told me that you've probably hugged a thousand random people on the street. Oh, doubt. Away hugs.

SPEAKER_01: A thousand in a day. Probably probably a 100,000 more more. Yeah. It was it was nice. It was it was good. I mean, I could waste this entire thing telling that story. That's that's probably not what people wanna hear.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, I can see why decentralized dance party also appealed to you on that score.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. That's so d d p, Gary, the guy who runs that, he he came and stayed in my apartment in Brooklyn, And we had this three story loft in a warehouse, and we'd let people come crash, and he came through. And that time, met him, and I've I've done three or four of them. I was I was, what is it? It's it's Tom. So Tom is like a rotating I was Tom one time. So that was fun. I just shaved my beard. I had a mustache. I looked funny.

SPEAKER_00: I'll I'll drop some some links on Twitter for that for anyone who hasn't seen decentralized dance party, or you can go and have a have a Google on your own. It is it's quite exceptional.

SPEAKER_01: It's funny. I had a no I didn't really understand the decentralized thing at that point. I was not really involved, so that he was kind of ahead of the curve on that with me.

SPEAKER_00: For sure. So, yeah, that's Gary Le LeChance, who was a fellow Vancouverite with me. He was, funnily enough, in in a photo for the very first item I could find about Vancouver Decentral, you know, the whole Decentral, Toronto, Vancouver, Ben Gary was in that photo for the first one. Maybe well known as well now for for Doge Clarin. So there is the Doge wrapped McLaren, which travels around many many conferences where they can get financial support for that. Yeah. Gary's a great guy. That's pretty fun. So tell me about your the vision that you had, which was then the same as the white paper. Because on the on the Twitter thread, I was wrongly saying your mind was blown by the Ethereum white paper where actually what happened was that you'd you'd have a vision of this about a week before, and then the white paper landed on your on your lap. So what the hell was that about? Yes. So what actually happened was I had a roommate

SPEAKER_01: for years ago, like years when I lived in New York, and he had tried to get me into Bitcoin when it was a dollar. And I said, I don't this is like Internet nerd money. I'm like a love revolutionary. I don't give a shit about this. And then he kept bothering me about it for years, and then it hit 1,400. And I was kind of humble enough to be like, well, if other people think it's worth something, I guess it is. But he had he had texted me and he said, listen, man. I want you to listen to this podcast. And it was the talk Bitcoin podcast with Adam B. Levine and Andreas Antonopoulos. And so I had given up working in tech because my my arms had given out. I was a programmer and designer for, you know, a very long time. And I had I started making cannabis edibles in California because it seemed like a an an industry that was gonna be some pretty easy to get into, like the marketing, the production, everything was shit, and I was pretty good at it. So, yeah. So I had I had a girlfriend who was about four hours away, and I would go visit her on the weekends. And I I saw it through the Bitcoin podcast on. I ate one of my candies and don't drive stone kids. But, yeah, on the way there, I was listening and listening to the podcast, and my my brain is kinda tuned in. And I had I like, what could I I can only describe as, like, a biblical vision. I would say, like, before that, I wouldn't have understood what that meant, but, like, just this massive data download into my head where I could see, like, basically see the future, like, visually. Like, I just saw the whole thing playing out in front of me and I was like, oh, shit. You know, Bitcoin, I'm I'm still not particularly fascinated by, but the blockchain idea has an amazing amount of potential. And so it just kinda it struck me so much that, I was like, I gotta go talk to Adam. I gotta go meet the people who did this podcast because at that time, it was the only Bitcoin podcast. And I thought anybody who wanted attention for what they were doing would probably contact them. So the buddy that had told me to listen to the podcast randomly came into town three days later. And I said, hey, man. I've been thinking a lot. I listen to the podcast. I have a lot of idea. I I need to meet, Adam. I need to meet and he goes, well, actually, I'm flying out in a couple days to go meet him. We we have a meeting scheduled. He's in Washington celebrating his birthday with his wife. And I said, no. No. No. No. We're getting in my car right now. I'm driving. I'm driving us there. I'm going. I'm gonna go talk to him. And he's like, what? Really? And I'm like, yeah. Fucking cancel your ticket. Like, we're getting my car right now. So we drove, like, twenty hours or whatever to, like, Washington state. I walked in. Pretty much I don't know what their meeting was about, but I pretty much just took Adam to the side, and we ended up sitting in his hot tub on his balcony for, like, nine hours just talking. And it was a really cool it was really cool, you know, discussion. And I said, you know, what what I want from you is I want you to tell me anybody you know who's who's working on anything like this. And he said, well, you know, the do you know who Vitalik is? I said, man, no. I'm not I'm not in crypto. I'm not in Bitcoin. I don't know I don't know anybody. I don't know anything. And he said, well, you just sent me this white paper a few days ago. I can, like, I can forward it to you. And can you guys still hear me? Yep. Yep. Alright. My wheel is being stopped showing. So then yeah. So he forwarded me the white paper. I looked at it. You know, to me, it wasn't as comprehensive as the vision that I had, but I thought, you know, this is kids met. Right? Like, what are the chances that all of the stuff lined up like this? So I said, yeah. Make the intro. And so we started a Skype group and, you know, Adam was there. I remember Charles was there. Vitalik was there. I was there. It's it's it became the official Ethereum Skype group and just kinda grew from there. So but, you know, it was like Was that water cooler? No. No. No. Water cooler is something I made later because people That's lighter. Yeah. So that was just the the the literal, like, main ethereum Skype channel that we used to communicate for the first, I don't know, long time.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Right.

SPEAKER_01: No. Water cooler was something I created later because actually, I don't remember why. People were I I had I guess I was kinda like I guess it's off topic or whatever, probably. Off topic chatty thing. Maybe. But, like, I I was kinda like the dude that everybody trusted. And so, like, whenever anybody wanted to talk to somebody, would come talk to me, which is why I, like, got so much information about what was going on all the time. But yeah. So I think it was just an extension of that. Like, people talk to me all the time. Let me create a little place for us to shoot the shit.

SPEAKER_00: Got you. So when when do you think you had that trip to Washington? When do you think that would have been?

SPEAKER_01: I'm horrible with with the time and dates, especially during that time, you know, when you're like a free flowing hippie dude. That's just yeah. But it was I would say it was the week after the the week week and a half after Vitalik sent the white paper out to Right. Right. His original group of people to get the feedback on.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. So it might even have been during November still.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean, it was as early as you could get. I mean, just by happenstance, just by the timing, was there the the basically, the moment we were coming together. Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing.

SPEAKER_00: Because, yeah, I was so I was able to find that the video of of you and Vitalik at the, at the salon Yeah. Yeah. Which was, beaming into the Vancouver Decentral there, and that was December 15. That was Yeah. That you did that one?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So we've been yeah. I mean, again, the timing the timing, I don't know. But, yeah, obviously, by that time, we had been doing it for a minute.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean, the funny thing was looking at that, that's before there was any code, any public code at least. There wasn't even any Python code from Vitalik published at that point. Gavin, Jeff were weeks away still.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And Jeff Jeff, to my understanding, just read the white paper and started coding it up on his own and said, hey. I've got this Go implementation.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Pretty much. And and the same for same for Gav. They were both at the very tail December, basically, like a Christmas project kind of deal for them for the pair of them. Yeah. No. It was great, you know. And

SPEAKER_01: I've been a developer my whole life since I was a kid. And since I had quit coding, I wasn't really sure where I fit in, you know. But I was really happy when all these other people, got in. I guess maybe if I had to drop some code and gotten a lot more ETH, that would have been cool, but whatever.

SPEAKER_02: So, I mean,

SPEAKER_00: to you at that point, like, what was Ethereum? Like, what was this this vision and, like, what what were you thinking that that could unfold to be? You know, what what was the what was the the the the kernel of that?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So, I mean, it's it's so hard to remember those days. There's so much on top of it now. You know, I remember the general vibe was just a technology that would allow people to coordinate, to to encode value, to I mean, you know, like, just at all dimensions. Things that that haven't even come to fruition yet. Things that people aren't even thinking about because so much of it has gone to scale just like fundraising fundraising locally, like, just coordinating anything. I mean, it was it was just the the whole world. Like, just imagining every single system being replaced by this decentralized coordination structure that that gives the the you know, some some 11 year old kid in, you know, Bangalore could create the next, you know, technical development. And and, you know, I think that kind of platform is just something that seemed really empowering. So, you know, a lot of idealism. You know? Obviously, real life as it's played out is a lot a lot messier and a lot different from how we how we imagined it, but lot of idealistic things, a lot of, like, very much just just really coordination. And and that's a really shitty description of the vision that I had because it was so deep and so multidimensional and Yeah. But yeah. Social

SPEAKER_00: operating system is something I've seen you say on a few occasions.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean, yeah, just there's so many dimensions to it, but, yeah, I mean, a social operating system for allowing people to encode their values or encode. Yeah. Literally, their values, anything with value, creating incentive structures, contracts that that that that are enforced at the exact level that they were designed to, which none of that's you know, that sounds really technical and and unsexy. But to me, it was really about the impact, you know, what it what happens when you empower people to to be able to to create value in their local communities or or encode value in ways they haven't been able to. What happens when, you know, the equity in your company can be easily trade you know, just all these things. Just just so what what happens when you can do that to houses and local businesses and local communities?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean, I'm I'm thinking my own sort of thinking in those early days, it was an awful lot about empowerment and about, you know, giving giving people the ability to control their own destiny. Right? Yep. And and something I repeatedly thought was was like, if you think about the what's it called? The pyramid of needs? What's it called? I forget the. Maslow. The hierarchy. Yeah. Maslow's. Right. Maslow's hierarchy of needs. You know, I I remember a number of times saying, you know, it's frankly obscene given all the resources that we have in the world and how, you know, how much more there is than there was in previous years, it's obscene that people should be, like, worried about housing or education or health care or, you know, just these basic things. Right? Yep. And how wonderful would it be if you could, like, yank up that base layer a little bit so that people are not, like, living in this fearful place of powerlessness Yeah. But instead can be, like, not worrying that much shit and not having to make these compromised bad decisions and everything. But just if you could do what you love, what what a world that would be.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And I'm a lot less idealistic about it now after the last decade for a lot of reasons. But, you know, the marshmallow test is real and you can create really good technologies and really good user experiences and as many guardrails as you can for people. But at the end of the day, there's motherfuckers that are going to eat the marshmallow before they even hear the rules, you know? And then they'll do it again and again. So, you know, I think there's a lot of it's it's not that I think the problems are unsolvable, but they're, you know, the idea that it's something from above being imposed down, you know, despite the fact that the system seemed to be that way, I I think a lot of it is just the the the level of complexity of modern life relative to the average intelligence is It's just it's it's a wide gap, and there's a lot of I mean, I don't know. I could talk about that for fucking ten hours too. So Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Well, I mean, something that I saw in those early days of Ethereum as well was a real kind of almost like allergic reaction to anything that looked like organization or hierarchy or structure. Right? Everything has gotta be flat and open and, you know, everything everyone involved with everything, which is just completely impractical for actually organizing or doing anything. Yep. It's it's Yeah. It's just it's just nutty. So but then it's like I I realized it's like, hierarchy isn't the problem. Being trapped in a hierarchy where it's to your detriment and you can't get out is the problem. Yeah. You know?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And a lot of and I think a lot of times what happens in that is smart people, you know, smart people aren't really they don't really understand not smart people. And so what happens is we, we are born into a world where these preexisting hierarchies exist and they've, you know, to some degree or another, you know, kind of persisted through, through generation after generation. And then we come in and we're like, why am at the bottom of this hierarchy? I'm smart. We're all too smart for this. And then they try to like, you know, they try to create new systems assuming that everyone is approximately like them. And then, you know, I've, I've been through so many cause again, coming through the hippie shit, I was in the Bay Area for a long time. You see so many people think that they're the first person ever think of flat hierarchies and how it's going to be so much better. And at the end of the day, man, like that's fine. If you want to talk all the fucking time and you want to argue and you want to get nothing done. But at the end of the day, you know, a hierarchy is an information structure and it's also an accountability structure. And so as long as there's accountability at the top and as long as the information is flowing correctly and as long as the outputs are, you know, optimal to some degree, it's the best you're going to get. And it's, it doesn't mean we can't continually improve. Obviously life gets better and we have an obligation. You know, I think when you're creating things, it's not just the creating things. And I think this is a big problem that still exists in crypto. People think if you build it, they will come. You can't just build it. You have to build it and then you have to make it a button, a single button. It has to be so simple. Your grandma can do it and not destroy her life. And so it is this kind of perpetual attempt to take these complex structures, simplify them so that everyone has that access to them. But through that simplification, not creating these kinds of hells that no one can get out of. And I think, you know, just because of the, the, the rate of technological development and the nature of, economic progress, our opportunities as people trapped in those systems is, is to build new systems. But ultimately we're going to come face to face with the reality of why those systems were set up the way they were and understand that the best we can really hope for in most instances is an optimization of that. We can try to make it simpler, more efficient, better, and more adaptable, but those are a lot of dimensions that any one of them out of, how to out of sync is gonna, is going to create either more problems or the system itself will collapse. Right? And, you know, if the system doesn't exist, then nobody gets nobody gets anything.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean, I guess it's a little bit analogous to sort of technical debt and things in in code. Yep. Is if you've if you've got code and there's and you're like, Jesus, look at this. It's so much like complexity and these conditions. I don't think we need any of that. Let's just take all that out. But, you know, someone did that for a reason. Yeah. You may not know the reason, but, you know, it was done for a reason. And you, you know, you're gonna have some consequence if you if you do that. Right? You Yep. You can only be so simple without being, you know, too simplistic, and then you you miss out on that Correct. Detail. Yeah. I mean, I I guess it's like, you you know, with with sort of US legal stuff, you know, this this hot liquid might burn you or whatever. You just know that some shit's happened in the past. Right? The reason that all of these things have happened is someone's done something Yeah. Really fucking stupid.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And I you know, as after I became a father, I became really a huge proponent of the idea of if you think a stupid rule exists because the person who made it is stupid, you haven't thought through the problem. It isn't a bunch of people. Oh no, I'm not saying this has never existed. But it's not like some nefarious guy at the top who wants to just ruin your life. It's some fucking idiot who did some idiot shit and then now you've to make a stupid rule. You know what I mean? And you've to enforce it with fire. Otherwise you know, your kids end up dumping plates of food in their closet and you find it six months later. And so, you know, it's, it's just that at scale, but you're going to have to keep me on topic as much as you want to because I am a meander.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: On on this human side, something I'd I'd talked about during my maple syrup peace phase was was neurodiversity and the fact that normies would not be involved in the early phases of such a project. Right? It's absolutely crazy to go and do what you did. Yeah. It's crazy what most people did. Yeah. So how does that play out? The fact that in these frontier technologies, you don't have normal people. Well, you do, but you have a lot of of us people who would not fall into that category. So how does that all play out? What what what do you think is happening there? I think it's just

SPEAKER_01: the the structure of how things have always occurred. Right? So you have these kinds of people on the front edge and I, and I was on the internet from, you know, I remember reading when the HTML two point zero spec was about to come out. Right? And so the early days of the internet, it was that. And so I was on the internet all day talking to people and you know, there was a technical barrier and it's just you have these kinds of neurodivergent people show up. So in the early days of crypto, it was a lot of people who were paranoid, a lot of autistic people and a spattering of sociopaths who kind of could see that they could make money. And so that, that has a profound effect on how things play out. But I think it seems the way that may at least in capitalism, what happens is huge amounts of capital come in and it just becomes this kind of probability matrix of throw as much energy at this thing as you can on the front end. And then whatever survives is going to play out. But kind of, if you look at, you look at something like Linux or open source technology in general, it's like very autistic and autistic people have a very specific, I've noticed differentiation from the average person, which is they, they honestly like believe that the terminal is the greatest interface of all time. It's like they don't grasp that most people need buttons. And so it's like you look at Linux. Linux was kind of a fringe thing only tech people used. And then Google came in and at least had enough sense to, like, hire some designers to turn it into something functional. Steve jobs did the same thing with OSX. You know, OSX was a, a previous like eunuchs variant. And so you, you, you need that. You need those people who come in, are, who are on the edge, who are technical enough to, to, to be able to communicate with the technical people and understand, but they also need the cloud, the money and the power to overrule those people because like Linux had like very horrible user interface and user experience for a long time, even when they had window managers. And you have to understand I was a designer, so I would go into these open source spaces and I I'm going to tell you what man, like these people who for sure would not let you comment on their code and for sure not let you tell you how they were going to structure it or for sure not tell you, you know, tell them what language they're going to use, have no fucking problems stepping outside of their, their own expertise and driving a designer insane. You know what I mean? Very logical, unemotional, totally tapped out of any sense of like what a normal person needs and they just beat the designers into the ground. So you really need somebody who has power and the competence and the will and the desire and can put it all together. And I don't think we really see that. You know what I mean? The wallets fucking suck. You, you know, you could, I don't know now, but you know, like a year ago I clicked a button and, and emptied my, my hot wallet. Right? And like that shouldn't be possible. Like how hard is it to throw up a fucking thing that says, Hey, are you meaning to send every bit of this? This is a lot of money, you know? Like why does it not just say, Hey, it didn't even say it in dollars. Do you know what I mean? It was, it was obfuscated. It didn't even say there should have been a massive fucking pop up that said you're about to send a $100,000 to somebody. Are you sure you want to do this? Yeah. Or, or, or I, as soon as I clicked the button knew what had happened, even if there had been like a fucking five minute, you know, delay, right? Anything there's, there's, but none of this isn't happening. Right. And, and whether it be the structure of the organizations or, you know, if the designers are having to argue with the tech people, like whatever it is, it's just grandma still can't use this shit. It's ten years in. If I, if I'm willing the energy, could, you know what I mean? I could like,

SPEAKER_00: within six months we could, we could solve these problems. And I just don't see it. I mean, I guess, I I guess this is the reason why things like the ETFs are so appealing. Right? It's just Yeah. Can I just not deal with any of this shit at all? But I can just, like, use my account I've already got. It's just a thing that I buy or sell. Right? And and just you know, it's a proxy for it, but most people don't care. That's why reduces it to an investment vehicle. Right? It does. It does. And and maybe for It does. And then that's that's really a failure, as you say, on on delivery of of of the holistic platform that that that you do need something which is absolutely better. Right? It's just like a product question, really. Right? It's saying, unless the product that you are offering is absolutely better than something existing or is cheaper or gives you some other benefits or whatever, then normal people, they're not gonna use it. Correct. Doesn't matter what the what the, you know Correct. What your worldview is behind that. You you've given them something that's worse than what they have, so they don't care. Yeah. And so, you know, I think

SPEAKER_01: exchanges and things like that kind of acting as a buffer is a is a, you know, it's, it's a step. I mean, you know, ultimately

SPEAKER_00: how are these things going to be used?

SPEAKER_01: The end user is probably not going to know, you know, what they're using on the back end anymore than the average person knows what processor is in their phone.

SPEAKER_00: So No. No. I mean, I I I guess the hope is it's like a layering thing. Right? That that, you know, in the same way as you've got those DeFi primitives that you're gonna layer this, you you know, whatever social recovery or buffered amounts or what or insurance for fuck ups or all this sort of stuff. Right? That you should be able to put together a stack of things that have an equivalent kind of characteristic and experience for existing things Mhmm. But without that strong dependence on, you know, a single legal entity that's you've got that customer service provider kind of pattern rather than just it being raw, dangerous as you experienced

SPEAKER_01: there. Yeah. And I and I mean, you know, to this day, I mean, I feel anxious all the time because I because I hold crypto. You know? Me, I feel anxious all the time. You know what I mean? I think we all, I think we all do. So it's like, that's not an experience that the average person wants. The average person wants to put their money in a bank account. The average person wants to click a button and if something goes wrong to be able to reverse it. You know, we haven't really addressed any of that. That's it's again, just a, it's a failure because the people who are in charge think like anyone can do what they're doing and it's not that big of a deal. And like, all you have to do is do this and like, blah, blah, It's like, no, dude, all they have to do is click a button. You've done it. That's that's your metric for success. Click one button and not worry about anything. You just know the thing's going to happen and if it doesn't, it'll get fixed.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, when I was looking through sort of different phases of this period that I've I've been covering in the in the early days of Ethereum sort of website there, I I was noticing so in in January well, it was in January and February 2014, there's just such a flood of people that came in. I mean, there were a fair chunk in December, but that just really accelerated through January and February. So, I mean, how how did that, like, play out that you've just got, like, tons and tons of people, you know, rocking up and really like volunteering?

SPEAKER_01: Turned everything into Game of Thrones. Yeah. Yeah. That's what happened. It turned everything into Game of Thrones. So, like, I was there day one. I was doing, I was making sure like, you know, first thing I did was, metallic posted this website that he made. It was piss yellow. He had stolen some other shit coins logo and just put a Ethereum on it. And I was like, please don't post this. Give me till tomorrow. So I like spun up a logo, send it to him. He was like, Oh yeah, this is kind of what I was thinking. I was like, thank God, please don't put that out. I don't know if I made a website or, and then somebody submitted an image, but the image was like, like, and so just real quick, like what I used to do is I used to be like the dude who, dev shops would call when they were six months of mine on a project and needed it done in three days. Right? So I was a designer, full stack developer. So my, my skill was I could take your idea and I could, I could make it look like it existed forever and you had $10,000,000 in funding in twenty four hours. Right? So that was my goal at that point. Once I realized that that was a massive gap, I just inserted myself there and I'm only telling the story to say then when everybody flooded in and especially when the zug house happened, you had all these people kind of going behind other people's backs and I'm trying to push people out and take over their roles. And it was, it was just a very stressful, weird time because, you get, you just get a different type of person, right? The type of people who show up and are just wanting to build a thing cause it's cool. That's the type of person. But when they show up and they're like, yeah, let's fucking, let's make sure it's us. Let's make sure we're the ones. Let's like fuck those people. Let's not communicate with them. So it was a lot of, like, political maneuvering that was required to survive.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And, I mean, I guess that Miami house was where that were, like, really, like, dug in, you know, because that was the the first time that most people were physically in the same location out of that set of It was pretty fun. The weirdest part about that was meeting Charles and,

SPEAKER_01: you know, Charles, I he might've been the first person who is doing kind of the thing that I just said, right? Like showed up and kind of inserted himself and was like, I'm going to be CEO and I'm like, he was just, he's just a fucking liar though, man. He was like 24 or something and he presented, yeah, he presented himself like he was 50 years old and he'd been in tech forever. And here's the thing, man. I actually was probably the most, experienced in terms of I'd lived in Silicon Valley. I'd worked in multiple startups, but like despite my personality, on Twitter or even if you meet me in person, like I'm pretty humble when I get into a group of people that I can tell have skills. So I kind of just sat back and didn't try to insert myself. I didn't try to like demand, you know, I'd be involved in this or that. I just tried to be as helpful as I could. So you know, when I, when I talked to, Charles for the first time, I was like, all right, you know, this dude's kind of weird, but we'll see what's up. So like literally the moment I met him in Miami, I shook his hand and I was like, Oh God, he's a fucking sociopath. Like, okay, well maybe he's our sociopath. You know, like every company has a sociopath. Like maybe he's like a well regulated sociopath. And then when we got to the Miami house, I found out, no, no, he's not a well regulated sociopath. He's a fucking compulsive liar, manipulative weirdo. Karen, were you going to say something?

SPEAKER_03: I was just going to say in Charles defense, at that time he did look 50 years old. So

SPEAKER_01: got away with it, bro. When I found out he was like fucking seven years younger than me, I was like, what the, why am I deferring to this kid? He's like, what the hell? So yeah, it was, it was weird, man. Like in the Miami house, I, he just said some of the weirdest shit to me. There was some thing from, I don't know. I won't go into too many details. I've, I've covered them and given interviews to people who have reported on it, but not under my name. So I guess to shield me from any sort of retribution, but I, it was weird man. He just said some weird shit to me. Like he showed me, I'll tell this one cause I've told it publicly a lot of times, but he was like, texture, come here. And I'm like, what's up? And he's like, check out this text message. And I'm like, okay. And I like just met the dude and he shows me this text message and it's a chick and she's like, I want to suck your cock so bad. Sorry for any children listening. And I'm like, why the fuck is he showing me this? And he's like, you know where I met her? I was like, no. He's like, I met her on the front lines of Afghanistan when I was working for DARPA. I'm like, Jesus Christ, dude. Oh my God, shut the fuck up. And so I will say this because it's something that bothers me. Like for some reason the media all says that the reason that Charles was kicked out was because he wanted to do business and not a nonprofit and like Charlie got kicked out cause he was a fucking weirdo sociopath who didn't do anything like above board and like he couldn't be trusted. He, he didn't, he played games with everybody. Like I was not in his inner circle cause I, I didn't like, he would do the, I call him a sociopath test where like they say something fucked up to see how you respond. They'll ask you to do unreasonable things to see if you'll do them. And then the people that do them and do them without question end up being in his inner circle. They, they become the people we just continue to on in his Cardano. So like, you know, he, he, he just operates in such a way that he gets sick of fans around them. He lies to them. He gets them into situations where they like loyal to him and they don't question him. And then, you know, just weaves a whole reality around that that isn't real. And that's, that's my assessment of Charles and he was, he was not kicked out because of business decision. Mean it was a cluster now. Yeah. I mean, you know, no one else was kicked out. Let's just say that. I guess, Amir left, but that's another story.

SPEAKER_00: Well, Amir was kinda kicked out from what I saw

SPEAKER_01: based on the fact that people thought he wasn't actually doing anything. He wasn't really, like, pulling his way or doing anything useful. I like I like the mirror as a person. We I haven't talked to him in a few years. We're still cool to this day, but yeah. I mean, what what was his skill set?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I don't know. Don't know. There's Debbie sort of stuff. He said he was he was talking to people, potential investors sort of thing. But yeah. Yeah. And, I mean, in terms of Charles, it took me a lot of years to really

SPEAKER_01: understand Charles, shall we say. Yeah. You you know, I defended you on that because I think you're, like, a really sweet guy, and I I think I understand your perspective. So whether or not I like Charles, I'm going to come defend you.

SPEAKER_03: Not to dig too much, but, Charles is kind of like body assistant partner guy. Is his name Jeremy?

SPEAKER_00: I'm try I'm remembering because I actually thought he was Jeremy Wood.

SPEAKER_03: And maybe there was more there, but I I'm just to text your point, you know, maybe he was just naive or maybe you guys know more than I do, but, that was a sort of a strange dichotomy.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Again, I think it's just whoever would follow him around and not question him. Like, that's how you got to be his right hand man. The less questions you ask, the closer, best better friend you are. The more you listen to stupid stories, didn't call him on it. You know what mean? Like, I'm at this I was in the front lines of Afghanistan for DARPA, and now I'm like, shut the fuck up, Charles.

SPEAKER_00: With Jeremy Woody notably called him boy. Come here, boy.

SPEAKER_01: I never saw that. I'm telling you, like, I remember some story about him, like playing games with people in the zug house, like sending somebody's sending somebody off who's like, who's like wife was there or girlfriend and telling them that they had to go do this thing for him out of town. And then when that person had left, he then tried to convince one of the other dudes to like get with the dude's wife. Like just weird stuff, man. Like just things that they're not, they have no, Why would you do that? You know what I mean? You have an opportunity of life. The answer is you're a fucking idiot who lied yourself into a situation you shouldn't be in and you are a compulsive lying manipulator. I'm sure it makes them feel smart or something. I don't know. But like it was just the stories when he, when he was gone after the red wedding, I think everybody breathed a sigh of relief. You know, the biggest problem for me was, after the fundraiser, after the red wedding, Stefan, who I had introduced or I had welcomed into the organization. And again, there was a lot of political stuff. If you went to the dog, you got, basically put up in the hierarchy. So I ended up under Stefan. I couldn't go to zug cause my girlfriend was pregnant and I couldn't leave to go to zug for a month. And yeah, don't know. It was Stefan was, I don't know, high energy, high anxiety dude. It a weird thing.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. I was smoking the stereotypical amount of cigarettes at the time.

SPEAKER_01: The stereotypical man that dude lived. He had a vape that he puffed like, you're right. It was a vape. It was a vape. It was, it was, it was clouds of smoke. And so I went, you know, with dev con zero, I went and spent a week with them in the office in in London and dudes and Stefan, if you weren't having a fucking panic attack, Stefan couldn't tell you were working. It was crazy. And he would pace around this coworking space like nobody else was there. Just the whole place looked like a fucking rave dude. Like I think he got kicked out because he was trying to film a TV show and vaping too much and he had bought like $50,000 worth of camera equipment because his dream was to start a TV show or something on the ethereum budget.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I heard that. London location was was was pretty special.

SPEAKER_01: It was weird, man.

SPEAKER_00: Did you say you were never in zoo? I never no. I never went. I

SPEAKER_01: had so my girlfriend at the time was pregnant. I had spent a month in Panama with Eric and team while she was pregnant. So honestly, in retrospect, if I could go to, know, it's hard to know how things would have played out because of the political stuff with my, my, I was not political. I didn't have any strategy. I didn't, I was not prepared for any of that shit. My, I just tried to be like the most authentic, like trustworthy, do what I say person good to everybody like that. That's how I survived as long as I did. You know, I don't really do politics. I really don't. All of that stuff was really weird.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, all of this was prior to both the crowd sale and the formation of of the Ethereum Foundation. Right? Mhmm. You know? So the red wedding was 06/03/2014. The where, you know, you had that, I guess, that that final decision of of of the foundation happening versus the for profit because you had you had people coming, notably coming to at that point to sign papers. Right? You know, it was it was to do with that f Swiss legal entity, and then it was like, yep. No. We're not signing the papers. Big mess. And then the foundation was was July that that was incorporated, and you still have the crown sale ongoing through July and August. So Yeah. And the crowds a hell of a long span of time Yeah. And we

SPEAKER_01: kept saying two weeks. I don't know. That was a meme for a very long time. Two weeks. Two weeks. Two weeks.

SPEAKER_00: Well, the website that was up at the time of the Miami conference was showing a countdown to the February 1. That was when the sale was gonna start. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, no, I think, you know, as far as the foundation being set up in the beginning, it's, it's whatever, what it's become is whatever too. Cause it, it could, they could change into a structure that supports Ethereum for the long term, but yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm more focused on today, but I do think, you know, I always thank your dad every time I see him for all those work because I do think he's filling a role. If there is a power, again, I think you're, if there is a power vacuum, you know, I think he, he, he will be, standing around to at least mitigate it. Without him, who knows? But the thing about the Bitcoin thing you said is like, that's what I'm concerned is going to happen to Ethereum is you get to a point where it just becomes this kind of like not coordinated thing where everybody's arguing and nothing happens. Right? And nobody can make a decision because at the end of the day, like groups don't make decisions, you know, groups don't create greatness. Like that's just, that's just not what happens, you know? Like you have, you have these kind of visionary geniuses and if they manage to like find the right idea and the right group and they're supported and they have the time and energy to do it, then, then it, then it moves forward. You can, you can even look at like a more structured version version like apple. Whereas you know, Steve jobs had set up a massive corporate structure and it still exists to this day and the vision is gone. Right? So once, once the kind of visionary is separated from the vision and once the, you know, it's going to default back to the level of the organization. And if you're, if the goal of the Ethereum Foundation as stated is to make itself irrelevant, like, I mean, that's so frustrating. Like, man, we created this technology that could potentially allow you to, it could, could potentially allow this technology could potentially allow you to create entire governance systems and corporate structures or whatever that could persist on the blockchain indefinitely, with all kinds of mechanisms and like, what the fuck? Like, is that not what the Ethereum Foundation should be doing? Should they not be, like, eating their own dog food? Should they not be doing what we said we were going to do? Should they not be funding that? Like, I mean, how many esoteric scaling solutions can you can you invest in? Right?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean, I from my perspective, I think the the change of leadership that there was this year with with Thomas coming in as a as a as a co ED has made a world of difference, you know, that that they have become more transparent than has been the case before. And I think that he, as a ethereum company CEO, because he's the CEO of of Nevermind as well, I think has given him that kind of, like, product holistic getting shit done kind of perspective that that has before. And he's got the credibility of having been in the ecosystem as well, right, and having gone from, hey. We're a we're a, you know, we're a little company doing an Ethereum client to, you know, a really large kind of player that do all kinds of things. Yeah. And I think there hasn't been that before. You know? Yeah. He is a CEO type.

SPEAKER_01: He, he was he I did a a call with him. We talked for a a bit, and he seemed great. Asked a lot of questions and said he had talked to over a 100 people. And I gave him some of my thoughts and criticisms and, I don't know. I've I've seen a lot of the things that we talked about kind of playing out. So, you know, I hope I hope he can be a force that persists again. You know, if you have the palace politics, there's always the people like that. They're always in danger.

SPEAKER_00: That's it.

SPEAKER_01: There might be another coup. That's what I'm saying. Like, you know, you could be the best guy with the best intentions with the best ideas and you're the guy to do it. And if, if the power structure is designed around, you know, placating people who are only concerned about their place in the palace, you know, it's happened to me multiple times in my life. They kick you, they kick you out because you're a threat to what they're trying to accomplish in their minds. They don't understand that, you know, if you allow the guy, the guy who is doing this to, to really create something that lasts and is bigger than you're going to get a bigger piece of a bigger slice from a bigger pie. But if you completely undermine everybody who's trying to do that, you're going to end up with a nothing, You know?

SPEAKER_00: Something like this a

SPEAKER_03: mechanism for a coup. I I assume, like, in practice, the foundation is, like, you know, kind of doing whatever the people who work for it wants to do, but in the end is a dictatorship of Vitalik at the end of the day. Like

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So, yeah, the only mechanism I see is the people who have a tallax ear get in his ear long enough that, you know, it's not working. So to some degree, there there might, you know, be a community capacity to be a louder voice consistently to ensure that, you know, there will be backlash if anything like that happens.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I made this the the sixth epoch that there's been. So we had white paper to wet red red wedding, whereas essentially, you know, just no formal structures really, you know, emergent. Then you have the the period of the of the Ethereum Foundation and f dev. So that was July 2014 through February 2015. Then he had the interregnum where you you were whopped, which was between March 2015 and June 2015 where you had Kelly.

SPEAKER_01: Becker.

SPEAKER_00: Kelly Becker kind of, like, overseeing the installation of the new professional, in quotes, board that began the Ming dynasty where she immediately knocked off all the other directors, and then she had her three years of of tyranny. And then you had the infinite garden with Eire coming in in the another coup there in in February 2018. And then it seems this this last one was maybe not so much of a coup as an evolution in that Eire's still around as the president, that you have new executive

SPEAKER_01: leadership. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So, yeah, I don't know what this period comes to be called, but It's it's know, that it's definitely better and more coherent.

SPEAKER_01: You know, I I'm pressing it a lot of the time and you know, I had my encounters with Aya that clued me into the fact that she was not really qualified or even coherently involved in a way that I would assume somebody, in her position will be. So I was, you know, I was applying pressure years ago, years and years ago And, yeah, five years ago, six years ago. So I think, you know, eventually the community kind of, came around to what I'd been saying this whole time, which is wait, like she should be doing, like there's things that need to be done and we all see that they're not being done and what the fuck. And we can't even, this woman is doesn't seem to care. And she keeps talking about esoteric poetry and fucking infinite gardens. What is this shit? You know, like fucking do your job. You know, for me, the, you know, I've talked about it before, but you know, their website, the website was like the same website for three years. Had, it was just an informational website. It was a brochure website and I just messaged her and said, Hey man, We, we need to update this website. I'll do it for free. And she said, oh, yeah. I think we have a team working on that. Let me get back to you. So I like kept in contact with her. It took her six months, six months to figure out who was working on the website, Bob. I mean, yeah, like, are you fucking kidding me? Like, what are you doing? Are you sitting in fucking at the beach, like sipping my ties? I legitimately don't know what you're doing because you clearly have no active. This is how this is what it should be. You should have an org chart. You should fucking know the person to call. You know what mean? You should actually know who's building your website. So that was, that was just an insane to me that you could be the ostensible roughly running an organization and not even know who to contact to, to see who is building the website. And then it ultimately was Josh Stark. I messaged him and said, Hey man, I'd love to help. I'll do it for free. I can have it done in a week. He was like, no, I'm good. I was like, what do you mean you're good? You're not doing it. Like, nothing has happened. It's been six months. It's not something that takes six months or a year. Anyways, it was like a year later, they finally launched a year and a half later. So

SPEAKER_00: There was a longer tweet thread of me ranting a little bit. Well, it wasn't very ranty, actually. It was quite polite in in late in late it was December 2017, and Hudson tweeted out something like, hey. What could the Ethereum be doing better? It was something like that. And it's like, ah, well. Oh my god. But the but the but my list was very simple. It was like, yeah, the website's shit. It's useless. It doesn't do anything. There's no information. Nothing of there. You know, nothing useful there. Also, there's no public information on the Ethereum Foundation. Like, you know, who who are the board members? You know, how does how does voting work? Who are advisers to the foundation? Yeah. What teams are there? Who works on these teams? There wasn't even a grants program at that point either. It was just basically you you just have Ming and Vitalik, and she had hired on Jamie Pitts and Hudson, so there was a little bit of extra help. But, essentially, it was it was that thin little bit of overhead and a bunch of devs, and that that was what there was. So and she couldn't delegate either me. So just nothing got done. Like, really just nothing got done at all. Yep.

SPEAKER_01: She yeah. I mean, I don't know. In retrospect, if I'd known that I mean, I know you said she was a nightmare, but she did offer to hire me back into the Ethereum Foundation. But I I didn't feel, I don't know, I don't know. It was a time where I didn't really feel like working. I'd been a little burnt out from the previous few years. So, know, maybe if I'd accepted that,

SPEAKER_00: she should have should have made you. Don't worry. You went about that last too long if she came back. Maybe, maybe, maybe, you know, if everyone got named, if she was like stuff and then

SPEAKER_01: yeah, that high energy, like, stress stuff. But I don't know. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: I was a little bit more But but yeah. I mean, the you know, so I think that was the problem, like, that you hadn't got enough people to get anything done, you know, like like what you talked about with. That was that was the case So you asked in that earlier era as well as the the there wasn't really no organizational structure and nothing really much was happening beyond the developers doing their development. Oh, and, know, we'll do a dev con now and then. Yeah. Well, you asked about the palace politics thing and I just had a memory, you

SPEAKER_01: know, people it's it's much less now than it used to be, but to some degree, people still keep me in the loop when, you know, they know things. So I think, I think maybe the biggest problem with the, with the way that things are structured right now is that there's nobody to give pushback and there's no dissenting voices and there's a like a very homogenous group of people, homogenous, whatever the word is. Group of people who aren't going to step out of the party line for any reason because they're going to be afraid of being pushed out. And I think that's not necessarily good. Obviously you can't have people following you around who think their only job is to undermine anything you say, but real, I mean, you need, you need voices that will speak the truth. Even when it's uncomfortable because you know, decisions may, they have, they have outcomes. And having a bunch of people who see the world in the same way and aren't really thinking of of things holistically or from different perspectives, you know, it's gonna create issues.

SPEAKER_00: At the recent, FCC in Cannes Mhmm. There was a slide which, Jerome had on there, which was talking about, dissenting voices. And both myself and Greg Colvin were up there as as Ethereum dissidents.

SPEAKER_01: I didn't get it. It's alright. Nobody remembers me. Congrats,

SPEAKER_00: though. No. Sorry. You you you're not you're not known enough. I don't know. Oh, no. You're not you're not being loud enough. No. It's alright. I

SPEAKER_01: only have the number of calls I do because a couple jokes I made, one of them being texture pongsi. I I very much don't mind being lost to history if it means I'm not on someone's let's rob the sky list. Well,

SPEAKER_00: I think that's maybe a good kind of place to wrap up. Yeah. Don't worry. I wish you all the very best, and enjoy your life.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Well, Bob, thanks for having me on. If you wanna have me on again, I'm more than happy to always give you my time. Good to talk to you, Kereum.

SPEAKER_03: Hey, pleasure to have been a, you know, not too long, but,

SPEAKER_01: no. Yeah. Great great to chat again, and we'll do it again soon. Yeah. Maybe maybe so. Maybe we'll see you soon. And then thanks for everybody who's come to listen. And, yeah. Don't follow me. Okay.

SPEAKER_00: Thanks a lot. So, yeah, texture is I am texture on Twitter. Have you got any other websites or anything, places that you'd like to point people?

SPEAKER_01: No. I'm not. No. No. Just kinda have have a nice night. Have a nice day, wherever you're at, morning.

SPEAKER_00: Thanks so much. Okay. Thanks, everyone. Cheers, everyone. Bye.

SPEAKER_01: Bye bye.