# Cleaned Transcript

SPEAKER_00: The stream is live. The stream is live.

SPEAKER_01: Don't cross the streams.

SPEAKER_02: Who are you gonna call? We'll see what happens to the audio when you cross the streams. Yes. Exactly. Okay. We seem to be also live on X. So welcome everyone to another group chat for by the...

SPEAKER_01: Mutual support group chat. Mutual support group. Yeah. Of fairness.

SPEAKER_02: Yes. Exactly. With the builders from Straum. I'm Victor Wong. I am founder and chief product officer at Straum Mercado.

SPEAKER_01: Bob, who are you? Hello. I'm head of ecosystem.

SPEAKER_02: And Karen, who are you?

SPEAKER_00: Karen James, once a coder, you know, long time off. Code a little again. Vibe coding era has been great for making an occasional fix here and there. But soon we'll be back just doing commercial stuff. You know? I was playing around with the OpenAI browser today, and it was kind of miraculous just telling it to do stuff and seeing like the cursor move around. It was both miraculous and disturbing. You know?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Client good at that, though it moves really slow.

SPEAKER_00: It does. It takes time to do stuff. And but you just can't keep it running in the background.

SPEAKER_02: Anyways, today's topic, getting us back to the topic at hand, is basically our corporate chains back. And we obviously have some intimate knowledge about this, having been part of the rise and perhaps fall and maybe the rise again of corporate chains. Hey. Hey, Lewis. Nice to have you. But maybe you can maybe, Bob, you can give us an outline of the new corporate chains as they're called. Like, what's kind of happening currently? And then we can kind of look back over the history of corporate chains.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, the red hot action at the moment is really about about Tempo. You know? So Tempo was announced on September 4 by Stripe and a consortium that they got together, which just reading initial members as well as Stripe themselves including Anthropic, Coupang. I don't know who those are. I'm not gonna sell these. Deutsche Bank, DoorDash, Mercury Bank, OpenAI, Revolut, Shopify, and Visa. So, yeah, I mean, you got Shopify and Visa. You know, you're doing pretty well on on that payment side.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And and, yeah, I mean, I guess, where a lot of this tension has come in on the Ethereum side is, you know, this is gonna be another EVM chain. So it's kind of like, thanks for the work, guys. We'll do a corporate version now. And, you know, so, specifically, Paradigm are a big part of this. Now Paradigm have spent the last few years kind of building up Ethereum stack stuff, you know, kind of being semi well behaved participants within the Ethereum ecosystem, coming out a few, you know, VC nasty moments, but essentially building a, you know, hey. We've built a really good new Rust client. Right? We do some of the best tooling, you know, with Foundry. Right? You know, what we had going on in earlier years. Right? We've made a better one, and I think there's about three or four areas where they built sort of Ethereum stack stuff. Almost like, hey. Here's a full stack Ethereum, you know, stack. Oh, but actually, we're going over that. So, like, we've got the answer, and we can just do a new chain deployment and off we go. So, yeah, that's not been received terribly well. Also, brain drain, you know, that they are snuffling up a good number of fairly high profile people. Danfungible, one of the main Ethereum researchers, key guy behind the proof of stake transition, you know, years at work. You know him as a primary guy, and he's off, you know, to get his paycheck. Fair play to him, you know, a number of other people as well. But that's been the the current, you know, fire as said, this is like if Greta went to work for BP.

SPEAKER_02: Well and and to be clear also, I think we've been talking about Tempo, but they're not the only corporate chain. Like, you you know, obviously, Robinhood is launching an L2.

SPEAKER_00: Are arbitrarily I think it's an L1. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So Arbitrum's stack. But, yeah, they they yeah, I didn't know if it's an L2 or an L1. They've sort of talked about various bits on that. Circle. Circle. Circle announced Arc. Yep. You know, they're they're not content to be a smart sorry, a stablecoin on other chains. It's like, right. We're do our own chain as well. I mean, Base, you know, the whole Base thing from Coinbase. Mhmm. Again. You know, they haven't had a token, but, you know, there's your straight path into, you know, into Coinbase.

SPEAKER_00: Tether has a chain or soon. Right? I think they announced something.

SPEAKER_01: Maybe. I mean, they started out, you know, before Ethereum stuff was going. Right? It's on Omni that was previously Mastercoin, you know, super ancient tech 2013 era, but then, you know, they later moved to Ethereum and many other chains. But, yeah, like, having their own totally you know, is something that makes sense. And, I mean, you've had you've had Binance chain, you know, BNB for for years. Pretty much every major exchange seems to have their own chain now.

SPEAKER_00: Uniswap has a chain? Yeah. Yeah. Uniswap has a chain. But I don't think of those as corporate chains. Like, it's...

SPEAKER_01: It's hard to tell. Right? It's like...

SPEAKER_00: It is close to line between is it for us, by us, or is it sort of like, you know, it it somehow, I see the Stripe Chain as like the incursion of the establishment into our crypto turf, whereas and I kinda see Base that way a little bit where I feel somehow less bad about Binance Chain even though Coinbase in some ways, like, a better actor than than Binance. But, very much Coinbase just feels like part of the old thing to me, you know, whereas...

SPEAKER_01: But, I mean, these lines are quite arbitrary. Yeah. You know, there were various discussions I saw as well this week, you know, about Ethereum alignment. You know, what what does that even mean? It's like so these guys, they're Ethereum Alliance, so it's okay. So it's okay.

SPEAKER_00: I think what it means I mean, it's a strange thing that's going on in which let's take it to Bitcoin for a second. Mhmm. I've been critical at least privately, maybe maybe publicly of the maxi mentality in which, like, you know, there will only be Bitcoin. There's only one sincere crypto asset. You know? Everything after is a scam. Got it. And we should all put our energy into Bitcoin, but also never really add anything to Bitcoin. Maybe very slowly add small things around the margin.

SPEAKER_02: Well, it's gotta stay secure. You know? See, like, we believe in open markets, but we should be the only market. Right? There should only ultimately be a single market. You know, I...

SPEAKER_01: It's a it it's a very hypocratic...

SPEAKER_02: Hypocritical...

SPEAKER_01: As well for libertarian types. It's like, no. No. This is all about freedom from the man. Right? You know? Yeah. You can't tell me what to do. Permissionless change. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Not like that. Everything here, just in this one approved location. Yeah. So I think it's a little bit a repeat of that phenomenon. I mean, I get it also. I guess, like, I'm a kind of a believer in the more permissive open source software licensing. Like, at the same time, maybe Linux was right as far as like GPL sort of forcing the commercial efforts to accrue back one place. And, you know, the BSDs survive basically with OS X to some extent. You know? And perhaps maybe it outcompeted because it had a benevolent dictator genius, but maybe it outcompeted in part because of the virality of the license. And this is not to say I think there's a mix of licensing regimes. I know you've you've worked on this very directly, Bob, for the Ethereum software. Yeah. Some of it permissive, some some not. But, you know, I it's sort of, part of it's also like a lot of the Ethereum people did well enough to either launch the next thing on Ethereum or launch the next thing not on Ethereum and didn't really have any need for a job per se, at some point. And so you would expect something new to come and maybe try to cannibalize the the old thing. It's it's a strange sort of religiosity also, and I think we experienced it even in like back in 2015 even. Like, any deviation from Ethereum principles was...

SPEAKER_02: Looked looked as scant. You know?

SPEAKER_00: Well well, maybe that that's sort of a good transition. Maybe we can you know, we, as BlockApps and Straum, went in you know, with the Haskell implementation of Ethereum, went in our corporate chain direction. Maybe like you can talk about...

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Why would you do that? What...

SPEAKER_02: Indeed. There.

SPEAKER_00: So we may be partly to blame for this. Partly to blame. You know, it's and it was barely on purpose. So rolling back in '20 let's say, late 2014, our CTO Jim and I, mostly Jim, started working on the Haskell implementation of Ethereum. And he pretty quickly got it to the point where it could like sync the testnet. You know? And there were some chat groups, a Slack. There was a bit of a the yellow paper, I guess, was out at that time.

SPEAKER_01: I found an exact date for this, actually. So Jim's first commit was mid September 2014. Yeah. That's understandable. The yellow I just the yellow paper had been out about April.

SPEAKER_00: Really? Yeah. Gotcha. Yeah. And he he might have been working on it for a while before he pushed anything. I think I would have gotten back. So we met up we got introduced by previous cofounder of Jim's who I had reached out to when I started working on Ethereum. And we probably spoke the first time June, July, something like that. And we met up in Berkeley probably the first time maybe August or September or thereabouts. By the way, since then, Jim continues to have a client of habit of building a full client to try to understand a piece of blockchain software. At some point, we were looking into the state of zero knowledge proofs, and he built a, I believe, full syncing Zcash client. It's definitely missing some features, but we still have that somewhere in the...

SPEAKER_01: As you do.

SPEAKER_02: As you do. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: As one does. As one does. That's right. So, yeah, we we actually we should revisit this at some later date. But so he so, yes, we met up. He started coding, and it got to the point of functional and syncing with the fairly primitive early testnets pretty quickly. And, you know, we we didn't quite intend to turn it into a business right at the beginning. But the three of us, that's Victor, Jim, and I met up on January 2015, had a bunch of conferences that I've done I've spoken about, you know, at other times. We can link people to the early days of Ethereum one perhaps. That helps kind of galvanize the effort. But I think what what we had was always like a pragmatic attitude. Right? And so shortly after that, one of the first things we built, we found like the API interaction style to be a little odd, like the the JSON RPC, the Web3 library. We're kinda like, all other APIs are like this where where this is a REST API. We were kinda looking at Chain.com. I think Chain actually sponsored the conference that we did or spoke or something, and it was a good like talk where it was like, well, we've got these 20 great use cases that people are are doing out there in the world. Oh, and they're all on Chain. You know? Chain also, fairly soon after that, seemed to go a corporate chain direction.

SPEAKER_01: Well, what was that sort of like a UTXO Bitcoin-y like?

SPEAKER_00: Because I know I assume so. Yeah. I think they I think they probably either forked one of the Bitcoin clients or maybe they started from scratch. But but first, definitely, they were trying to be the Bitcoin developer API. It just didn't feel like there was enough demand at that time. And I assume, like us, it was a strange period where you actually got pretty active corporate inbound. Like, sometime in 2015 and then later into 2016, it was very common for corporate innovation labs to be running some kind of blockchain tech, usually an Ethereum variant. And, you know, they they were were very explicit. And and maybe, you know, it's sort of like the early cloud days. Like, we want that thing you've got, but can you just get it on prem? Like, can you just...

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Can you just like...

SPEAKER_00: Want the ledger. We'd wanna we'd wanna know who the parties are. You can't just let anyone in here. We're regulated. We want it, though. We we really want it. We like this API you've got. Give it to us. We got transactions to settle right now with our suppliers. And it all went way slower than that. But it was like it was it was like the market was actually like screaming at you for a minute there in a in a way that you know, the world feels much different now. Like, I think it is certainly true that so so, like, in the, I don't know, seventies or eighties or whatever was common for like the Department of Defense or some giant bank or something to be your first customer. And much later, it it's sort of more of the opposite that you'd get like bottoms up, devs, small companies first, and then later, really big guys. And it was sort of a a strange mix. It's like you get I think there's a barbell effect where really big companies have a lot of excess cash to investigate new technologies, and then you get startups. You know? And and that was a feeling, and and we would get the the inbound from those really big companies. And, you know, I think that even that era, you know, I bet they're all doing AI now, and maybe maybe that adoption is going it's probably mixed, but there was a moment there where it was like screaming urgent demand.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I know it's a part of that also is like when we launched blockchain as a service with Microsoft and we made it easy to effectively build your own testnets on clouds, everyone started doing...

SPEAKER_00: Right? Yes. And the the interesting thing is at that time, the real development seemed to be happening by these corporates in these innovation labs versus, you know, independent dapps.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. That's right. It felt like okay. They would come to you with like a PowerPoint describing the like billion plus dollar problem that they have.

SPEAKER_00: This is after all the NDAs were signed and all that sort of thing. This was like very convincing. It was, you know, some of the use cases were bad, but a lot of them are like, oh, okay. Like, you have some like really complicated multi-organization settlement problem that you handle with spreadsheets or some ancient system, and it costs a ton of money. And if you actually could upgrade it, it would be way better, potentially. And the vast majority of those did not work out. You know? But it it wasn't like they identified the wrong problem. It was like the will to implement across a corporation or multiple corporations. They're this big consortium era was probably the issue. And to some extent, I know we wanna talk a little bit about Libra, you know, regulatory barriers as well in certain cases. But, yeah, it was like so so, again, we in at first started to be wanted to be just like the public net API, like Alchemy or an Infura now. And I think we're just a little early for that. And then, also, we're going to the effort of maintaining a whole client, which was challenging because things kept changing as they continue to do. But got very much pulled in this like let's run our own network direction...

SPEAKER_02: By the by the corporates.

SPEAKER_00: And and I think part of it was at that early time, they couldn't hold ETH. So they were like, we won't do all these things, but we can't hold ETH. Can you make a version where we don't need to do it to do all these things?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I know. Yeah. I totally forgot. Was like, treasury doesn't know what to do. This is like, it's pretty much like like, you know, but but now we got our procedures. We can't you know, it has to get in the ERP.

SPEAKER_00: We can't have like a line item for that. And, you know, it's like I mean, I remember...

SPEAKER_01: I remember with, you know, who became Monax and so on, you know, there so they started in 2014 as well, when it was still on POC 5 before the mainnet. And they had a a situation of a a company being set up by lawyers who, you know, really love the smart contract functionality, but nothing to do with ETH. It's like, ETH is probably illegal security. Like, we we don't wanna get anywhere near that. It's like, it really was the, you know, the blockchain, not Bitcoin being the phrase at the time. Right? Though blockchain, not Ethereum.

SPEAKER_00: Not either.

SPEAKER_02: But the one thing that was really interesting, like, when we launched that blockchain as a service and it got on Azure, like, we had thousands of people spinning up stuff, and then a good number of them reaching out to us. And I will say the use cases that didn't seem speculative did did come from these corporates, right, like to Karen's point. It's like Mhmm. Like, we did get contacted by sort of...

SPEAKER_00: Smaller groups, but they were like, oh, well, we just want a launch our own token and sell it. Like, that those are all those use cases. And then well, I mean, I think that came a little later, actually. I think that took once a couple of ICOs had happened, like, suddenly everyone wanted to pay someone to build their thing for an ICO. Yep. But that was kinda more like 2016 to 2018 phenomenon, I would say.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. That's true. The corporates came first, actually, which was great.

SPEAKER_00: Exactly.

SPEAKER_02: And and so, I mean, you know, that was our experience. And shortly afterwards and, Bob, you might have the timing. Libra by Facebook came along, and they were doing their own thing. Do do you know what the time was? Libra was '18 or '17? We launched blockchain as a service in 2015. Right? And we...

SPEAKER_01: End of 2015.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, I'm I'm feeling like it was 2016 that Libra launched.

SPEAKER_01: No. It was later, I think.

SPEAKER_00: Was it? Okay.

SPEAKER_01: Here we go. As a resident historian of all things blockchain. Here we go. 06/18/2019.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, I was in LA. Okay. That was really...

SPEAKER_01: So, yeah, at that point, Meta then Facebook, this was before they'd even turned into Meta, you know, announced it, which is a stablecoin project intended for global payments via its applications sorry, via its apps. So what you have there I mean, the other thing worth saying about Libra is Libra is not an EVM project. You know, they they had their I guess, you know, they're like happening like five years later. Yeah. So it's like, you know, let's apply all of our learnings of of what's worked and what has not worked over that five year period, especially about smart contract security and, you know...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Having a constrained...

SPEAKER_01: Model.

SPEAKER_00: Their their language seems pretty good to me, actually, just but no one uses it. We're stuck with Solidity will be the JavaScript slash COBOL of the...

SPEAKER_02: The crypto age. We're never getting rid of this thing, let's say.

SPEAKER_00: Well and and and, you know, like, I think the EVM has become the standard. Right? Like, that's just you know, I mean, Reth was mentioning that last week, and I think that that is true, basically, to a certain degree.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think it's the it's the JavaScript.

SPEAKER_01: It's the C. It's good enough that stuff got made on it, and it's never going away. Yeah. It's gonna be you know, this stuff is gonna be there forever. Or like Rust. But Libra had sorry. Yeah. But the launch of Libra, they had super high profile partners if I recall too. Very similar actually to the kind of...

SPEAKER_00: It was mostly like payment networks and notably no banks. It felt like a tech company driven fintech disintermediation play. Like, well, if we just had these stables, then we wouldn't have to have the bank accounts at the edge too, and we could just and I think this is kinda what killed it. Right? Like, the banks like each called up their representative and just screamed about big tech, you know, monopoly power.

SPEAKER_01: Sorry. Here's a list. So Facebook, Uber, Spotify, Andreessen Horowitz. Why they would be in there? Anchorage Bank, social custody, Lyft, Zappos, Coinbase, Union Square Ventures. So, yeah, it's it's actually a crappier list by far than than Tempo.

SPEAKER_00: You know, Mastercard was in until like the last second. Right.

SPEAKER_01: The people started making regulator noise and they dropped, I think, maybe Visa too.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, yeah. So so...

SPEAKER_02: I guess that that's into the question, like, why didn't that work? Right? Like and I think we've touched. Like, I recall Mark Zuckerberg having to like talk to Congress and...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Just...

SPEAKER_01: Like I just found these these exits. So the major exits out of that were were PayPal, Visa, Mastercard, Stripe. Right. Yeah. eBay. And I think they all like dropped out real super fast, didn't they? And I I mean, I think there was a mixture of things. This is my thoughts. Maybe you guys have got different thoughts. Firstly, everyone hated Facebook because they just had the Cambridge Analytica stuff. It's like, we're not gonna trust you, you guys. Like, no. But then the second one was like regulatory stuff because it was gonna be like because it was kinda going up against the dollar. Right? It was this it was like, right. We're gonna have a basket of things. So it wasn't just a straight stablecoin. It's like, oh, we're kind of having a go at the US dollar.

SPEAKER_00: And they cut the banks out of it too. That's the the...

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Point.

SPEAKER_00: Like and it and it's also like the the banks are fond of making their, I guess, they're called market utilities. You know, they they're bank owned industry cabals, like SWIFT, the DTCC. Some a lot of the exchanges are like this. I guess even the I don't really understand how that worked. Even the Fed is bank owned. But, basically, like, the banks pooled a bunch of capital a long time ago, and they set up this thing that you kinda have to use. And the profits from using that thing go back to them, and it's also like a choke point. You know? And like under other circumstances, you would have some sort of antitrust issue in doing this. Like, it's it's kind of like definitionally collusion. But the you also need these things, right, to to make the whole thing function. But it seemed like when tech attempted to do that itself, like, the the bank still had the ear of the relevant parties and...

SPEAKER_02: Shut it down.

SPEAKER_01: But, I mean, that's happening here again. Right? If you...

SPEAKER_00: That's precisely what's happening again.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. It's the same people, and it's basically saying, right, you know, the banks and the credit card companies to a lesser degree, like, own these pipes, and we have to like sit on top kind of thing in service. Yeah. How about like if us fintech techie companies, the Silicon Valley ones instead, how about like...

SPEAKER_00: Cut all of them out.

SPEAKER_01: I think it'll be cool if it hap...

SPEAKER_00: I by the way, I was I always thought, though I'm a bit of a big tech hater, I always thought Libra was at least cool. Like, it'd be interesting.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I mean, the technology behind it, you know, it was UTXO based, but it seemed pretty good. Like, they did a good job from the technology side.

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Yeah. I think I think so. And and not just doing like sort of a lazy job, I guess. Because talking about some of those earlier phases, it's like, right. Oh, we're kinda we're gonna take Bitcoin, and it's an enterprise Bitcoin. K? And then it's like, right. Sort of same deal on the EVMs. But but because they were that many years later, it was sort of almost like a clean room kind of effort. I think actually R3 did this with Corda.

SPEAKER_00: Right? Yeah. They did some they...

SPEAKER_01: Did some really good blogs, right, from from Richard Gendal Brown sort of saying, hey. We looked at all of the things that these existing techs are doing and, you know, whatever. There's these four or five different elements. And for our scenario, we we we need three of them, but we could do something else completely different. Right. Coming up with...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. You know, a different kind of solution.

SPEAKER_01: I think that kinda happened with Libra as well. It's like, let's get brainiacs.

SPEAKER_02: And it shows a degree happens with Fabric too. Right? Like, I mean...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. They were trying to do something.

SPEAKER_02: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: Fabric is a funny case too. I think in all of these cases, they correctly identified problems with Ethereum and related tech. And in essentially, none of them did they solve those problems. Yeah. They came at it with different approaches. Like, I really tried to I always liked Corda too. It was clean. Actually, find the UTXO stuff, especially enhanced UTXO, to be aesthetically pleasing. I think even Avalanche has one of those, and no one uses it. And when you really pressed like the Corda people were like, we're compliant. We've got privacy. You know? We've got and what you had was like a central ordering thing and no privacy whatsoever if you wanted to double spend protection. And it was like it was still cool and clean, and I like their state facts and this and that, but largely smoke and mirrors. Fabric was not good. You know, it was like a hack together. Like, if you think about what a system integrator would build, it's like, well, we got a Kafka thing. We've got this other thing. We've got a little bit of interprocess communication. We've got an API. Like, that's that's what it was. It was I don't think there was a real clean vision for for Fabric.

SPEAKER_02: You you mean like something IBM might build?

SPEAKER_00: That it that's what I yes. I'm saying, you know, like, it's like, well, if you just kinda put this thing with that thing and there's a consensus, it's kinda like a blockchain.

SPEAKER_01: You'll never get sucked for for buying it either.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Yeah. You know, you won't get stuck. It's open source.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. No. I think one of the common things was like all of those things had no token incentives. Right? So like you kind of had to go down that route to a certain degree. Because how else do you make sure how else do you get something blockchain like? Like, I do think if you don't have token incentives, really, it all kinds of falls apart to a certain degree.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, the the the the model that you had, right, for all of these is is, well, these are running within a consortium which already has legal agreements, you know, so we don't need to be permissionless because we know who's done the bad shit, and we've got a contract and we'll sue you or whatever. And if you have got that situation, well, there's a whole lot of simplification that you can do, you know, if you look at proof of work in particular, you know, and what that overhead that you have on Bitcoin or Ethereum at that time is incredibly expensive way of doing things, you know, versus the simpler approaches. And like the stat I saw from a thing Colin Platt did in around 2018 was like he worked out it was maybe as much as a hundred million times more expensive to do stuff on the EVM versus a single AWS node that you're running yourself where you've obviously got complete trust,...

SPEAKER_02: But that's like the overhead. Right? That's what you're paying.

SPEAKER_01: It's quite a bit of overhead.

SPEAKER_00: So so why do you guys and and, you know, that's part of the answer, and I'm just kinda curious from you guys. I have my own view. It's like, why do you think the first era of corporate chains didn't work?

SPEAKER_02: I think the biggest factor is that the organizations were not ready to behave in a blockchain-y way. And at the time, that manifested in feature requests. Like, it's missing X. Can my competitors see my customers? Like, what are what are the balances? What are the you know, will they be able to see total trading volumes, sales volumes? You know? And that's still a problem on the the public nets, etcetera. But it's sort of just like you kinda have to let it be, embrace it. Like, would have had to like turn it on persistently at small volume and then like kinda like let it grow and fix the problems as they went. And what they instead wanted was like a totally complete product that fits perfectly in their current workflow and existing regular like one thing people really are using are are seem to sincerely be using stables for like global internal clearing and settlement. And we actually you know, the I won't say the names, but we competed for didn't win a project for like a big call them a utility that's global, to do that. And the use case was actually really good, and they had such tremendous volumes that like dealing with the currency fluctuations was like a giant line item that they had to deal with. Yeah. And they wanted a permission chain for it. You could just do it with stables today. You know? That that's why there there always be a little bit of demand for non-USD stables. But like you may as well just use the public chains to move money around the world now. Right? And then you could build from that into various other use cases. I believe Stripe even does this. I think I've...

SPEAKER_01: Yep. Seen them say that.

SPEAKER_00: And PayPal does it.

SPEAKER_01: PayPal does it. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And that's what they would have needed to do. And instead, it was like, they had to like go very top down. There's budgeting, setting up legal entities, maybe investing in a consortium, you know, very tight rules about how the, you know, how the data could flow, which data, all that sort of thing. And it sort of it it it leads to like a strangulation where you would kinda just need to like let it bloom a little bit. And that's what the public chains did. They also had the incentive mechanism. It's not like there's a ton of corporate usage of public chains now. Although, I guess there's like institutional style financial usage that's now quite large. But even for like I think you'll see some corporate operational stuff, which, again, the like stablecoin, you know, global clearing, remittance settlement remittance stuff is starting to get there. I think that will happen the way I described as opposed to again, like, the the these folks, all have done extremely heavy IT implementations. Like, I've heard that at least in the era when Oracle and SAP were big at it, on average, an ERP implementation takes 5% of global revenue no matter the size of the world. So like the bigger you are, just like like like I think, Victor, maybe you mentioned to me once. I mentioned I was working on one for like a full decade and when I started...

SPEAKER_02: When I started at a company, they were they had already been working on an SAP implementation. And when I left six years later, they were still working on it.

SPEAKER_00: So it was just like yeah. The project is like, they're like, it's hard to do things incrementally in corporate, but it's in part, it's because it's super complicated and very regulated and whatever, but it's also mentality too. Like...

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Just kinda like put turn it on and then just start it.

SPEAKER_00: I mentioned this is what happened with the cloud. Like, they're like, alright. Let me just let me just do this one little thing, and it's easy. And you keep just putting more and more up on there, and now you have like I think like JPMorgan turned almost all of its on-prem stuff off, and it's all on Amazon or all on you know? And it's so I think that was the problem. And the consortium model really means you gotta like prethink and have like multi-party agreements with everybody and like then it's you know, you you the negotiation was endless. It's hard to do the data modeling. You know? That I think that was the problem at its core. But I think it it came down if the corporations like had this like let's just play with it mentality, you might have gotten where I'm describing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And and, Bob, what do you think? Do you have any view to add on why...

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, I think a lot of it is just technical maturity as well. You know, there wasn't really any ZK back then. So it's like, how do you do privacy? Like, how does that work? Know? And I mean, that's how Quorum like came into existence was that, you know, Amber and the team at JPMorgan wanted to do something. And without like a privacy story, it was never gonna get approved. Like, they wouldn't be allowed to do anything. So it was like, okay. Well, what's the thing we could do? Okay. We can have a private database and like that can be offered around the side and you just do hashes on the mainnet and, you know, the other bits are permissioned. So it's kind of like, you know, there's a workaround for it. But, you know, they did that with open eyes knowing like the ZK stuff is coming late, but it's not there. We have to do some hacky thing. Otherwise, we're literally not gonna be allowed to do anything. I mean...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. This was also a story to I I think that's true too. And I'll add my thing, which is while I agree with you, I still think everyone who found that deficiency, none of them solved it better, really, than what exists in the public chains out there today.

SPEAKER_01: No. It is kinda...

SPEAKER_00: I keep asking the AIs and looking around the Internet on the state of ZK. I mean, still not really there, maybe a little bit. You know? And...

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. The the enterprises all want the following permissioning model. Like...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I should be able to set to send value to Victor. Right. He should know that whatever I have really exists. You should be able he should be able to send it on to you. You should be able to verify that Victor had it, but not know that it came from me or how much he has total. And the regulator should somehow be able to see all of this, at least in a financial services setting.

SPEAKER_01: Right. And it mostly can't do that still.

SPEAKER_00: I I kind of I can't really tell. Like, I think Zcash is the closest, and then there are various ZK things both on Mhmm. As like a lot of the ZK is for efficiency, like throughput compared with for privacy at this time. But mostly that use case still can't really be done. There's some some hints that there's like a Cosmos, which you never hear about project that kind of does it. I have...

SPEAKER_01: Right. Summary, I think I've sent you before, but it's still not there, but they are using it. Right? Like, Stripe is is moving money around the world. I I so I think I I also think it's the rigidity of the mentality actually being a big...

SPEAKER_00: Totally.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, the the other the other tech is there is scaling, though. Right?

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_01: At that time, it was like, yeah. You've you've just got the Ethereum mainnet, and everything's gotta go on it. So it's like useless. But we've, you know, we've we've really got a a way better L2 story now. So that's...

SPEAKER_00: You...

SPEAKER_02: Well, I I kind of think the fundamental problem from my point of view is like they don't think of themselves like communities, and they don't wanna share. Right? So like...

SPEAKER_00: Yes. So like...

SPEAKER_02: So like when I talk about tokenomics, I think tokenomics provides you a system where participants can get everything. So, you know, not to go into names of the projects, but we built some very large consortium chains. And then at some point, every single one of those chains said, oh, well, we need data from this source that this group of people have. And then the question is like well, why would that group, you know, shippers or whatever, provide that data? And they're always they're always answers like, oh, we'll just force them to do it, but it never worked. Like...

SPEAKER_00: This is a big reason, and I guess this is in part what I meant by mentality. But, yes, the incentive alignment specifically was a huge problem where like a lot of times like either one of them wants the thing way more than the others and is willing to pay for it. One of the...

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Yeah. Or like...

SPEAKER_00: This is the Walmart IBM thing that didn't go anywhere.

SPEAKER_01: Maersk as well.

SPEAKER_00: Sure. Yep. Or a bunch of parties have roughly equal interest in the thing, but then like no one really wants to pay for it. It's like, it gets treated like a utility, well, let's pay cost recovery in, you know, and like it's slow. There's not the urgency to get those sort of things done. And in both cases, you have big trouble attracting like the rest of the value chain. Right? And so we concluded you definitely just had to turn the thing on and let them come in as they're ready. And, you know, one way or another, and it's I think it's worked the best in public chains because there's sort of a common token, if you will, and people are excited about the value of that token rising. By the way, this goes back to like other than technological deficiencies. Like, why do people decide to stick with Ethereum or do something else? And it's like, what's going to make the most money? Like...

SPEAKER_01: Right. Ethereum's got a lot of assets on it. Maybe you can get some of them. Maybe you should just sit there. But...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. You know, if there's something you're just bumping your head against and you can't quite figure out how to you might have to, you know, go leave, which which is you know, plenty of people have experienced that, including us.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And it's true for any real platform, like the app stores. Right? Everyone,...

SPEAKER_02: You know, myself included, we built for iOS first because they figured out payment they figured out micropayments really quickly so we could get paid for what we did. Right? So okay. Here's a here's a question that we'll close out on. Are the new round of corporate chains the future, or are they DOA based on similar problems? I'll start with Bob on this one.

SPEAKER_01: They are not solving the same problems as truly permissionless ecosystems. However, it it it's not it's not a winner takes all either. So I think maybe the losers here are gonna be the banks. So they can get their business eaten a lot easier than this can cannibalize Bitcoin or Ethereum, I think.

SPEAKER_02: K. Karen, your your verdict? Could be okay. Or are they in the future?

SPEAKER_00: I think we'll get a couple long lived corpo chains. I agree with that. I think they'll be semi niche. I mean, I think of Swift as a corpo chain.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: DTCC corpo chain. They just happen to not be using a blockchain, and both of them are sort of trying to. Right? So we're not gonna completely get rid of that. I think they won't go huge. Like and and to I mean, they might actually be like enormous volume, but like I both won't allow to be allowed to and probably will never like run a validator on one. I don't I agree also that they're not going to siphon that much value from public chains. Like, I think the tech may be similar, back end pipes from your bank account or, you know, when Stripe launches bank accounts versus your, you know, MetaMask account, but that they're not really gonna be that much intermingling to the two. Like, the one will have bearer assets. One largely will not. They're you know? And the uncensorability is really important, at the at the end of the day. So yeah. So I don't think they'll go away. I think it's very so I think the most immediate failure mode on all of these is political. Like, if we see a big flip around, they'll get killed again, where the permission change. So the the permissionless chains will maybe suffer in price a little bit, but probably not. But I am surprised that the banks I mean, they're already trying to rewrite the Genius Act so that Coinbase can stop to prevent Coinbase from offering rewards. And one way or another, the banks are finished either from the fintechs or crypto or both.

SPEAKER_01: The big ones around and are kind of tech companies anyway, but it is only regulatory capture protecting them at this point.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. No. I mean, I think it is both because payments is quite different from lots of other things happening on the blockchain side. Right?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. You know, savings, store of value, dapps. You're not gonna run dapps on Tempo.

SPEAKER_02: Mhmm.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Well, I I mean save you money in Tempo coin.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_00: I I mean I I agree. There will not be a lot of like DeFi on Tempo, for instance, sort of because it'd be too closed of environment. You won't get the compositional aspect of things probably because they won't allow it. Like, I I think in theory, you could, but you won't. Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: So my view is that the projects that might succeed in this space have to have two properties. One is they have to be driven by at least mostly one company. I don't think this like idea of like the bigger names you have altogether. Like, you know, we've experienced this. That just slows everything down to your point of view.

SPEAKER_01: Grandstanding and...

SPEAKER_00: Departments.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. It sounds good, but it's it it operationally, it's terrible. But the other thing is that they have to have that sort of community mindset from the start. Like, I think things like Base and Binance Chain have been able to do this because they brought a Web3 mentality even though they drove it at first. And so I think the projects are likely to kind of evolve are those kind of projects. That that'd be my prediction. And I guess also because, you know, their customer base are crypto-y people, you know, it's a similar kind of group. And and they understand those demands. Right? Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Like Tempo will be going for retail. It's gonna be normal retail, you know, Apple Pay, Tempo Pay. Yeah. You're not gonna know you're using Tempo, most likely.

SPEAKER_00: It could yeah. I guess...

SPEAKER_02: The banks could really suffer, or it could be the credit card networks that really suffer.

SPEAKER_00: Of course.

SPEAKER_02: I mean, I think the first victim is Swift, really.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I think it but yeah.

SPEAKER_02: So well, on that note, I'll give a quick preview to everyone. Let's wrap up today's conversation. Thank you for joining us. Quick preview for next week. We have Brian, founder of Pistachio Fi, joining us next week to talk about, you know, starting a new project. And his background, actually, he was previously an employee at BlockApps, so we know him very, very well. So if you wanna find us, we're always doing this every week. But if you wanna find me, you can find me on X at Vic four long. You can find out why it's I have the four in my name. Bob has posted that on our Telegram. Thanks. Bob, where can people find you for if they wanna hear more from you? So, yeah, again, X. So Bob Summerwill, so summer like the season. Will, like write your will.

SPEAKER_01: That's me.

SPEAKER_00: And, Karen, where can people find you? Also, X. K James Lubin. That's K James Lubin, L-U-B-I-N. James, J-M-E-S. K-M...

SPEAKER_02: Well, thank you everyone for joining us, and have a great week. Talk to you soon.

SPEAKER_01: Thanks, guys.

SPEAKER_00: Thanks.