SPEAKER_00: The stream is live.

SPEAKER_01: The stream is live.

SPEAKER_02: Don't cross the streams.

SPEAKER_00: Who are you gonna call to see.

SPEAKER_02: What happens to the audio when you cross the streets?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, exactly. Okay, we seem to be also live on on X. So welcome everyone to another group chat for by the mutual support.

SPEAKER_02: Group chat.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, exactly. With the builders from Stra Mercada. I'm Victor Wong. I am founder and chief product officer at Stra Mercada. Bob, who are you?

SPEAKER_02: Hello, I'm head of ecosystem and Kieran.

SPEAKER_01: Who are you?

SPEAKER_00: Kieran James Lubin, the CEO. Once a coder. You know, long time off code a little again vibe coding era has been great for making an occasional fix here and there but soon we'll be back just doing commercial stuff.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I, I was playing around with the open AI browser today and it was kind of miraculous. Just telling it to do stuff and seeing like the cursor move around all by itself was both miraculous and disturbing. No.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah though it moves really slow.

SPEAKER_01: It does. It takes time to do stuff and. But you just gotta keep it running in the background. Anyways, today's topic getting us back to the topic at hand is basically our corporate chains back and we obviously have some intimate knowledge about this having been part of the rise and perhaps fall and maybe the rise again of corporate chains. Hey, hey, hey Louis, nice to have you. But maybe you can, maybe Bob, you can give us an outline of the new corporate chains as they're called, like what's kind of happening currently and then we can look back over the history of corporate chains.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean you know the, the red hot action at the moment is really about. About Tempo, you know. So Tempo was announced on September 4 by Stripe and a consortium that they got together which just reading initial members as well as Stripe themselves, including anthropic coupang. I don't know who those are. I'm not going to say. All these Deutsche Bank, Door dash, Mercury Bank, OpenAI, Revolut, Shopify and Visa. So yeah, I mean you got Shopify and Visa. You know you're doing pretty well on, on that payment side. Yeah, and, and yeah, I mean I guess especially where a lot of this tension has come in on the Ethereum side is, you know, this is going to be another EVM chain. So it's kind of like thanks for the work guys, we'll do a corporate version now. And you know, so sponsors specifically Paradigm are a big part of this now. Par. Paradigm have spent the last few years kind of building up Ethereum stack stuff, you know, kind of being semi well behaved participants within the Ethereum ecosystem. Carry out a few, you know, VC nasty moments but essentially building a, you know, hey, we've built a really good new rust client. Right. We do some of the best tooling, you know with foundry. Right. You know what you had going on in, in earlier years. Right. We've made a better one and I think there's about three or four areas where they built sort of Ethereum stack stuff almost like hey, here's a full stack Ethereum, you know, stack. Oh, but actually we're going over that to like we've got the answer and we can just like do a new chain deployment and off we go. So yeah, that's not been received terribly well. Also big brain drain, you know that they are snuffling up a good number of fairly high profile people. Dankrad Feist, one of the main Ethereum researchers, key guy behind the proof of stake transition. You know, years of work, you know him as a primary guy and he's off, you know, to get his paycheck. Fair play to him. You know, a number of other people as well. But that, that's been the, the, the current, you know, fire as, as Guati Guat said this is like if Greta went to work for bp.

SPEAKER_01: Well and, and to be clear also I, I think we've been talking about Tempo but they're not the only corporal chain. Like you know, obviously Robinhood is launching an L2 on arbitration.

SPEAKER_00: I think it's an L1.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. So Arbitrum stack. But yeah, they, yeah, I don't know if it's an L2 or an L1. They've sort of talked about various bits on that circle, circle, circle announced arc.

SPEAKER_01: Yep.

SPEAKER_02: You know, they're not content to be a smart. Sorry a stable coin on other chains. It's like right. We're going to do our own chain as well. I mean base, you know, the whole base thing from Coinbase again, you know they haven't had a token but you know there's your, there's your straight path into, you know, into Coinbase.

SPEAKER_00: Tether has a chain or soon. Right. I think they announced something maybe.

SPEAKER_02: I mean they started out, you know, before Ethereum stuff was going. Right. It's on Omni that was previously Master Coin, you know, super ancient tech 2013 era. But then you know they later moved to Ethereum and many other chains. But yeah, like having their own totally, you know, is something that makes sense. And I mean you've had, you've had Binance chain, you Know BNB for, for years, pretty much every major exchange seems to have their own chain.

SPEAKER_01: Now.

SPEAKER_00: Uniswap has a chain.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, Uniswap has a chain. But I don't think of those as corporal chains. Like it's really hard to tell.

SPEAKER_00: Right. It's like, is it for us, by us, or is it sort of like, you know, it. Somehow I, I see the stripe chain as like the incursion of the establishment into our crypto turf where, where it's like. And I kind of see base that way a little bit where I, I feel somehow less bad about Binance Chain, even though Coinbase in some ways like a better actor than, than Binance, but very much Coinbase just feels like part of the old thing to me, you.

SPEAKER_02: Know, Whereas, I mean these lines are quite arbitrary.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: You know, there were various discussions I saw as well this week, you know, about Ethereum alignment. You know, what, what does that even mean? It's like so these guys, they're Ethereum aligned, so it's okay.

SPEAKER_00: So it's okay. I think what it means, I mean, it's a strange thing that's going on in which. Let's take it to Bitcoin for a second. I've been critical at least privately, maybe, maybe publicly of the maxi mentality in which like, you know, there will only be bitcoin, there's only one sincere crypto asset, you know, everything after is a scam and we should just all put our energy into Bitcoin, but also never really add anything to Bitcoin. Maybe very slowly add small things around the margin.

SPEAKER_01: Well, it's just gonna stay secure. Like we believe in open markets, but we should be the only market.

SPEAKER_00: Right?

SPEAKER_01: Like there should only ultimately be a single market.

SPEAKER_02: I mean it's very hypocrisy, hypocritical as well for libertarian types because it's like, no, no, this is all about freedom from the man. Right. You know? Yeah, you can't tell me what to do. Permissionless chains. Yeah, but not like that.

SPEAKER_00: Everything here, just in this one approved location. Yeah. So I think it's a little bit a repeat of that phenomenon. I mean, I get it also, I guess like I'm, I'm a kind of a believer in the more permissive open source software licensing. Like at the same time maybe Linux was right as far as like GPL sort of forcing the commercial efforts to crew back one place and you know, the BSDS survive basically with OS X to some extent, you know, and perhaps maybe it out competed because it Had a benevolent dictator, genius. But maybe it out competed in part because of the vital virality of the license. And this is not to say I, I think there's a mix of licensing regimes. I know you've, you've worked on this very directly Bob, for the Ethereum software. Some of it permissive, some some not. But you know I, it's sort of part of, it's also like a lot of the Ethereum people did well enough to either launch the next thing on Ethereum or launch the next thing not on Ethereum and didn't really have any need for a job per se at some point and so you would expect something new to come and maybe try to cannibalize the, the old thing. It's, it's, it's a strange sort of religiosity also and I think we experienced it even in like back in 2015. Even like any deviation from Ethereum principles was looked, looked askance, you know.

SPEAKER_01: Well maybe that, that's sort of a good transition. Maybe we can, you know, we as block apps and strado went in you know, with the Haskell implementation of Ethereum went in our corporal chain direction maybe like you can talk about there. So we may be partly to blame for this.

SPEAKER_00: Partly to blame and it was barely on purpose. So rolling back in 20, let's say late 2014, our CTO, Jim and I mostly Jim started working on the Haskell implementation of Ethereum and he pretty quickly got it to the point where it could like sync the testnet, you know and there were some chat groups a slack, there was a bit of a. The yellow paper I guess was out at that time.

SPEAKER_02: I found an exact date for this actually. So Jim's first commit was mid September 2014.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that sounds right.

SPEAKER_02: Yellow. The yellow paper had been out that April.

SPEAKER_01: Really?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, gotcha. Yeah. And he, he might have been working on it for a while before he pushed anything. I think I would have gotten back. So we met up, we got introduced by previous co founder of Jim's who I had reached out to when I started working on Ethereum and we probably spoke the first time, June, July, something like that and we met up in Berkeley probably the first time maybe August or September or thereabouts by the way since then Jim continues to have a client of a habit of building a full client to try to understand a piece of blockchain software. At some point we were looking into the state of zero knowledge proofs and he built a I believe full syncing zcash client. It's Definitely missing some features, but we still have that somewhere.

SPEAKER_02: And as you do.

SPEAKER_01: As you do.

SPEAKER_00: As one does. As one does. We should revisit this at some later date. But so he. So yes, we met up, he started coding and it got to the point of functional and syncing with the fairly primitive early test nets pretty quickly. And, you know, we didn't quite intend to turn it into a business right at the beginning, but the three of us, that's Victor, Jim and I met up January 2015, had a bunch of conferences that I've spoken about at other times. We can link people to the early days of Ethereum 1. Perhaps that helped kind of galvanize the effort. But I think what we had was always like a pragmatic attitude, right? And so shortly after that, one of the first things we built, we found the API interaction style to be a little odd. Like the JSON, RPC, the Web3 library. We're like, all other APIs are like this, where this is a REST API. We were looking@chain.com. i think chain actually sponsored the conference that we did or spoke or something, and it was a good talk where it's like, well, We've got these 20 great use cases that people are doing out there in the world. Oh, and they're all on Chain. You know, Chain also fairly soon after that seemed to go a corpocorp chain direction.

SPEAKER_02: Was that sort of like a UTXO bitcoin like, because. I know.

SPEAKER_00: I assume so, yeah. I think they. I think they probably either forked one of the bitcoin clients or maybe they started from scratch, but. But first, definitely they were trying to be the bitcoin developer API. It just didn't feel like there was enough demand at that time. And I assume, like us, it was a strange period where you actually got pretty active corporate inbound. Like sometime in 2015 and then later into 2016, it was very common for corporate innovation labs to be running some kind of blockchain tech, usually an Ethereum variant. And they were very explicit. And maybe it's sort of like the early cloud days. Like, we want that thing you've got, but can you just get it on prem. Can you just. Like we want the ledger, we'd want to know who the parties are. You can't just let anyone in here. We're regulated. We want it, though. We really want it. We like this API you've got. Give it to us. We got transactions to settle right now with our suppliers. And it all went way slower than that. But it was like it was like the market was actually like screaming at you for a minute there in a way that the world feels much different now. I think it is certainly true that in The, I don't know, 70s or 80s or whatever, it was common for like the Department of Defense or some giant bank or something to be your first customer. And much later it's sort of more the opposite that you'd get like bottoms up devs, small companies first and then later really big guys. And it was sort of a strange mix. It's like you get, I think there's like a barbell effect where really big companies have a lot of excess cash to investigate new technologies and then you get startups, you know, and, and that was a feeling and we would get the, the inbound from those really big companies. And you know, I think that even that era, I bet they're all doing AI now and maybe, maybe that adoption is going probably mixed. But there was a moment there where it was like screaming urgent demand.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And I would say part of that also is like when we launched Blockchain as a service with Microsoft and we made it easy to effectively build your own test nets on clouds. Everyone started doing it, right?

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_01: And the interesting thing is at that time the real development seemed to be happening five years corporates in these innovation labs versus you know, independent apps.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that's right. It felt like okay, they would come to you with like a PowerPoint describing the like billion plus dollar problem that they had. This is after all the NDAs were signed and all that sort of thing. This was like very convincing. It was like, you know, some of the use cases were bad but a lot of them are like oh okay, like you have some like really complicated multi organization settlement problem that you handle with spreadsheets or some ancient system and it costs a ton of money and if you actually could upgrade it, it would be way better potentially. And the vast majority of those did not work out. But it wasn't like they identified the wrong problem. It was like the will to implement across a corporation or multiple corporations. This big consortium era was probably the issue. And to some extent, I know we want to talk a little bit about library, you know, regulatory barriers as well in certain cases. But yeah, it was like so, so again we at first started to be wanted to be just like the public net API, like Alchemy or an Infura now and I think we're just a little early for that. And then also we're going to the effort of maintaining a whole client which was challenging because things Kept changing, as they continue to do, but got very much pulled in this, like, let's run our own network direction by the. By the corporates.

SPEAKER_01: And. And I think part of it was at that early time, they couldn't hold eth. So they were like, we want to do all these things, but we can hold eth. Can you make a version where we don't need to do it to do all these things?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, I totally forgot. It was like, treasury doesn't know what to do. 30 bucks. Like, like, like, you know, but like, no, we got our procedures. We can't, you know, it has to get in the erp. We can't have like a line item for that. And, you know, it's like, I remember.

SPEAKER_02: I remember with rsdb, you know, who became Monax and so on, you know, there. So they started in 2014 as well, when it was still on POC5 before the mainnet. And there you had a situation of a company being set up by lawyers who, you know, really love the smart contract functionality, but nothing to do with F. It's like F is probably in legal security. Like, we don't want to get anywhere near that. It's like. So it really was the, you know, the blockchain. Not bitcoin being the phrase at the time. Right, though blockchain. Not Ethereum. Not either.

SPEAKER_01: But the one thing that was really interesting, like, when we launched that Blockchain as a service and it got on Azure, we had thousands of people spinning up stuff and then a good number of them reaching out to us. And I will say the use cases that didn't seem speculative did come from these corporates. To Kieran's point. It's like we did get contacted by smaller groups, but they were like, oh, well, we just want to launch our own token and sell it. Those are all those use cases that.

SPEAKER_00: Came a little later, actually. That took once a couple of ICOs had happened. Like, suddenly everyone wanted to pay someone to build their thing for an ICO. But that was kind of more like 2016-2018 phenomenon, I would say.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, that's true.

SPEAKER_00: The corporates came first, actually, which was.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, exactly. And so, I mean, you know, that was our experience. And shortly afterwards, and Bob, you might have the timing, Libra by Facebook came along and they were doing their own thing. Do you know the time?

SPEAKER_00: 17?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, we launched blockchain as a service in 2015.

SPEAKER_00: Right, in 2015.

SPEAKER_01: So I'm. I'm feeling like it was 2016, that Libra.

SPEAKER_00: No, it was later. I Think was it?

SPEAKER_02: Okay, here we go.

SPEAKER_01: As a resident historian of all things blockchain.

SPEAKER_02: There we go. June 18th, 2019.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, okay.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. At that point Meta, then Facebook. This was before they'd even turned into matter, you know, announced it which is a stablecoin project intended for global payments via its applications, sorry virus apps. So what you have there, I mean the other thing worth saying about Libra is Libra is not an EVM project. You know they, they had their. I guess, you know they're like happening like five years later. So it's like you know, let's apply all of our learnings of what's worked and what has not worked over that five year period. Especially about smart contract security and you know, having a constrained model.

SPEAKER_00: Their language seems pretty good to me actually. But no one uses it. We're stuck with Solidity will be the JavaScript/COBOL of the the crypto age. We're never getting rid of this thing let's say.

SPEAKER_01: Well and it. And you know like I think the EVM has become the standard. Right. Like that's just you know, I mean Redone was mentioning that last week and I think that that is true basically to a certain degree.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, yeah. I mean I think it's the, it's the JavaScript, it's the C. It's good enough that stuff got made on it and it's never going away. Yeah. You know this stuff is going to be there forever or like units.

SPEAKER_01: But Libra had. Sorry, yeah but the launch of Libra they had super high profile partners if.

SPEAKER_00: I recall too very similar actually to the kind of. It was mostly like payment networks and notably no banks. It felt like a tech company, fintech disintermediation play like well if we just had these stables then we wouldn't have to have the bank account at the edge too and we could just. And I think this is kind of what killed it. Right. Like the banks like each called up their representative and just screamed about big tech, you know, monopoly power.

SPEAKER_02: So here's a list. So Facebook, Uber, Spotify, Anderson Horowitz, why they would be in there, Anchorage bank, the digital custody, Lyft, Zappo, Coinbase, Union Square Ventures. So yeah, it's actually a crappier list by far than than tempo.

SPEAKER_00: You know MasterCard was in until like the last second.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_00: People started making regulator noise and they dropped I think maybe Visa too.

SPEAKER_01: Oh yeah. So, so I guess that gets into the question like why didn't that work right. Like and I think we've touched Like I recall Mark Zuckerberg having to like talk to Congress.

SPEAKER_02: I just found these, these exits. So the major exits out of that work were PayPal, Visa, MasterCard, Stripe, right? Yeah, ebay. And I think they all like dropped out real super fast, didn't they? And I, I mean I think there was a mixture of things. This is my thoughts. Maybe you guys have got different thoughts. Firstly, everyone hated Facebook because they just had the Cambridge Analytica stuff. It's like, we're not going to trust you. You guys like, no. But then the second one was like regulatory stuff because it was going to be like a, because it was kind of going up against the dollar, right. It was this, it was like, right, we're going to have a basket of things. So it wasn't just a straight stable coin. It's like, oh, we're kind of having a go at the US dollar and.

SPEAKER_00: They cut the banks out of it too. That's the, the third point. Like, and, and it's also like the banks are fond of making their.

SPEAKER_01: I.

SPEAKER_00: Guess they're called market utilities. You know, they're bank owned industry cabals like the Swift, the dtcc. Some, a lot of the exchanges are like this. I guess even the, I don't really understand how that worked. Even the Fed is bank owned. But basically like the banks pooled a bunch of capital a long time ago and they set up this thing that you kind of have to use and the profits from using that thing go back to them. And it's also like a choke point, you know. And like under other circumstances you would have some sort of antitrust issue in doing this. Like it's, it's kind of like definitionally collusion. But you also need these things, right, to, to make the whole thing function. But it seemed like when tech attempted to do that itself, like the, the bank still had the ear of the relevant parties and shut it down.

SPEAKER_02: But I mean that's happening here again, right? It's almost the same people and it's basically saying, right, you know, the banks and the credit card companies to a lesser degree, like own these pipes and we had to like sit on top kind of thing and service.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: How about like if us fintech techie companies, the Silicon Valley ones instead. How about like.

SPEAKER_00: I think it would be cool if it happened. By the way I'm a bit of a big tech hater. I always thought Libre was at least cool. Like it would be interesting.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean the technology behind it, you know, it was utxo based. But it seemed pretty good. Like they did a good job from the technology side.

SPEAKER_02: Yes, yeah, yeah, I think, I think so. And not just doing like sort of a lazy job I guess because talking about some of those earlier phases it's like right, oh we kind of going to take Bitcoin and it's an enterprise Bitcoin. Okay. And then it's like right, sort of same deal on the EVMs but, but because they were that many years later, it was sort of almost like a clean room kind of effort. I think actually R3 did this with Corda, right? They did, they did some really good blogs right from, from Richard General Brown sort of saying, hey, we looked at all of the things that these existing, existing techs are doing and you know, whatever, there's these four or five different elements and for our scenario we, we need three of them. But we could do something else completely different coming up, you know, a different kind of solution. I think that kind of happened with Libra as well. It's like let's get brainiacs.

SPEAKER_01: Too, right? Like I mean they were trying to do something.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, fabric is a funny case too. I think in all of these cases they correctly identified problems with Ethereum and related tech and in essentially none of them did they solve those problems. Yeah, they came at it with different approaches. Like I really tried to always liked Corda too. It was clean. Actually find the UTXO stuff, especially enhanced utxo to be esthetically pleasing. Even Avalanche has one of those and no one uses it. And when you really pressed like the quarter, people were like we're compliant, we've got privacy, you know, we've got. And what you had was like a central ordering thing and no privacy whatsoever. If you wanted to double spend protection. And it was like it was still cool and clean and I liked their state facts and this and that. But largely spoken mirrors. Fabric was not good. You know, it was like a hacked together. Like if you think about what a system integrator would build, it's like well we've got a Kafka thing, we've got this other thing, we've got a little bit of inter process communication, we've got an API. Like that's, that's what it was, it was. I don't think there was a real clean vision for, for fabric but you.

SPEAKER_02: Mean like something IBM might build, that's what.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, I'm saying, you know, like it's like well if you just kind of put this thing with that thing and there's a consensus it's kind of like a blockchain.

SPEAKER_02: You'll never get sacked for, for buying it either.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You won't get stuck. It's open source.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I think one of the common things was like all of those things had no token incentives. Right. So like you kind of had to go down that route to a certain degree because how else do you make sure. How else do you get something blockchain? Like, like, I do think if you don't have token incentives, really, it all kinds of falls apart to a certain degree.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean, you know, the model that you had right, for all of these is, well, these are running within a consortium which already has legal agreements, you know, so we don't need to be permissionless because we know who's done the bad shit and we've got a contract and we'll sue you or whatever. And if you have got that situation, well, there's a whole lot of simplification that you can do. If you look at proof of work in particular and what that overhead that you have on Bitcoin or Ethereum at that time, it's incredibly expensive way of doing things versus the simpler approaches. The stat I saw from a thing Colin Platt did in around 2018 was like, he worked out it was maybe as much as a hundred million times more expensive to do stuff on the EVM versus a single AWS node that you're running yourself, where you've obviously got complete trust. But that's like the overhead, right? That's what you're paying.

SPEAKER_00: It's quite a bit of overhead.

SPEAKER_01: So, so why do you guys. And you know, that's part of the answer, and I'm just kind of curious for you guys, I have my own view is like, why do you think the first era of corporate chains didn't work?

SPEAKER_00: I think the biggest factor is that the organizations were not ready to behave in a blockchain way. And at the time that manifested in feature requests like, it's missing X. Can my competitors see my customers? Like, what, what are the balances? What are the, you know, will they be able to see total trading volumes, sales volumes, you know, and that's still a problem on the, the public nets, etc, but it's sort of just like you kind of have to let it be, embrace it. Like they would have had to like turn it on persistently at small volume and then like kind of like let it grow and fix the problems as they went. And what they instead wanted was like a totally complete product that fits perfectly in their Current workflow and existing regular like one thing people really are using are, are seem to sincerely be using stables for like global internal clearing and settlement. And we actually, you know, I won't say the names but we competed for, didn't win a project for like a big call them a utility that's global to do that. And the use case was actually really good and they had such tremendous volumes that like dealing with the currency fluctuations was like a giant line item that they had to deal with and they wanted a permission chain for it. You could just do it with stables today. That's why there always be a little bit of demand for non USD stables. But you may as well just use the public chains to move money around the world now. Right. And then you could build from that into various other use cases. I, I believe Stripe even does this. I think I've seen them say that.

SPEAKER_01: And PayPal does it. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And that's what they would have needed to do. And instead it was like they had to like go very top down. There's budgeting, setting up legal entities, maybe investing in a consortium, you know, very tight rules about how the data can flow, which data, all that sort of thing and it sort of, it leads to like a strangulation where you would kind of just need to like let it bloom a little bit. And that's what the public chains did. They also had the incentive mechanism. It's not like there's a ton of corporate usage of public chains now, although I guess there's like institutional style financial usage that's now got quite large. But even for like I think you'll see some just corporate operational stuff which again the like stablecoin, you know, global clearing, remittance settlement, remittance stuff is starting to get there. I think that will happen the way I described as opposed to again like the, the, these folks all have done extremely heavy IT implementations. Like I've heard that at least in the era when Oracle and SAP were big at it, on average an ERP implementation takes 5% of global revenue no matter the size of the. So like the bigger you are just like, like, like I think Victor, maybe you mentioned to me once I was working on one for like a full.

SPEAKER_01: Decade and when I started at a company they were, they had already been working on an SAP implementation and when I left six years later they were still working on it. So it was just like yeah.

SPEAKER_00: It'S hard to do things incrementally in corporate, but it's, it in part it's because it's super complicated and very regulated and whatever. But it's also mentality too. Like just kind of like put, turn it on and then just started. I imagine this is what happened with the cloud. Like they're like, all right, let me just, let me just do this one little thing and it's easy and you keep just putting more and more of on there and now you have like, I think like JP Morgan turned almost all of its on prem stuff off and it's all on Amazon or all on, you know, and it's so I think that was the problem. And the consortium model really means you gotta like pre think and have like multi party agreements with everybody. And like then it's, you know, you, the negotiation was endless. It's hard to do the data modeling. You know that. I think that was the problem at its core. But I think it came down if the corporations like had this like, let's just play with it mentality. You might have gotten where I'm describing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And Bob, what do you think? Do you have any view to add on why?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I mean, you know, I think a lot of it is just technical maturity as well. You know, there wasn't really any ZK back then. So it's like how do you do privacy? Like how does that work? Oh, you know, and I mean that's how quorum like came into existence was that you know, Amber and the team at JP Morgan wanted to do something and without like a privacy story it was never going to get approved. Like they wouldn't be allowed to do anything. So it was like, okay, well what's the thing we could do? Okay, we can have a private database and like that can be offered around the side and you just do hashes on the main net and the other bits are permissioned. So it's kind of like there's a workaround for it. But they did that with open eyes, knowing the ZK stuff is coming late, but it's not there and we have to do some hacky thing otherwise we're literally not going to be allowed to do anything. Mean this was also a story.

SPEAKER_01: I, I, I think that's true too. And now I'll add my take, which.

SPEAKER_00: Is while I agree with you, I still think everyone who found that deficiency, none of them solved it. Better really than what exists in the public chains out there today?

SPEAKER_02: No, kind of.

SPEAKER_00: I keep asking the AIs and looking around the Internet on the state of zk still not really there. Maybe a little bit, you know, and the, the enterprises all want the following permissioning model. Like yeah, I should be able to set to send value to Victor.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_00: He should know that whatever I have really exists. You should be able. He should be able to sell send it on to you. You should be able to verify that Victor had it, but not know that it came from me or how much he has total. And the regulator should somehow be able to see all of this at least in a financial services setting.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And it mostly can't do that still. I kind of can't really tell. Like I think zcash is the closest and then there are various ZK things both on as like a lot of the ZK is for efficiency, like throughput as compared for privacy at this time. But mostly that use case still can't really be done. There's some hints that there's like a cosmos which you never hear about project that kind of does it. I have summary I think I've sent you before but it's still not there. But they are using it, right. Like Stripe is moving money around the world. So I think, I also think it's like the rigidity of the mentality actually being a big.

SPEAKER_02: Totally. I mean the other tech piece there is scaling though, right?

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_02: At that time it was like, yeah, you've just got the Ethereum mainnet and everything's got to go on it, so it's like useless. But we've, you know, we've. We've really got a way better L2 story now. So that's.

SPEAKER_01: I kind of think the fundamental problem from my point of view is like they don't think of themselves like communities and they don't want to share. Right. So like, so like when I talk about tokenomics, I think tokenomics provides you a system where participants can get everything. So not to go into names of the projects, but we built some very large consortium chains and then at some point every single one of those chains said oh well, we need data from this source that this group of people have. And then the question is like well why would that group, shippers or whatever provide that data? And they're always, there are always answers like oh, we'll just force them to do it. But it never worked.

SPEAKER_00: Like this is a, a big reason and I guess this is in part what I meant by mentality. But yes, the incentive alignment specifically was a huge problem where like a lot of the times like either one of them wants the thing way more than the others and is willing to pay for it. One of the.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Or like this is like the walmart IBM thing that didn't go anywhere.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Maersk as well. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Or a bunch of parties have roughly equal interest in the thing. But then like no one really wants to pay for it. It's like it gets treated like a utility, like well let's pay cost recovery in, you know and like it's slow. There's not the urgency to get those sort of things done. And in both cases you have big trouble attracting the rest of the value chain.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: And so we concluded you definitely just had to turn the thing on and let them come in as they're ready and you know, one way or another. And it's. I think it's worked the best in public chains because there's sort of a common token if you will and people are excited about the value of that token rising. By the way. This goes back to like other than technological deficiencies like why do people decide to stick with Ethereum or do something else? And it's like what's going to make the most money? Like Ethereum's got a lot of assets on it. Maybe you can get some of them. Maybe you should just sit there. But if there's something you're just bumping your head against and you can't quite figure out how to, you might have to go leave, which is. Plenty of people have experienced that, including us.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And it's true for any real platform like the app stores. Right. Everyone, myself included we built for iOS first because they figured out micro payments really quickly so we could get paid for what we did. Here's a question that we'll close out on. Are the new round of corporal chains the future or are they DOA based on similar problems? I'll start with Bob on this one.

SPEAKER_02: They are not solving the same problems as truly permissionless ecosystems. However, it's not a winner takes all either. So I think maybe the losers here are going to be the banks that they can get their business eaten a lot easier than this can cannibalize Bitcoin or Ethereum, I think.

SPEAKER_01: Okay Karen, your, your verdict good or are they the future?

SPEAKER_00: I think we'll get a couple long lived corpo chains. I agree with that. I think they'll be semi niche. I mean I think of Swift as a Corpo chain.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: DTCCCorpo chain. They just happen to not be using a blockchain and both of them are sort of trying to. Right. So we're not going to completely get rid of that. I think they won't go huge like and they might actually be like enormous Volume but like I both won't allowed to be allowed to and probably will never like run a validator on one. I don't. I agree also that they're not going to siphon that much value from public chains. Like I think the tech may be similar back end pipes from your bank account or you know, when Stripe launches bank accounts versus your you know, metamask account but that they're not really going to be that much intermingling to the two. Like the one will have bearer assets, one largely will not. They're you know and the uncensorability is really important at the. At the end of the day. So yeah, so I don't think they'll go away. I think it's very. So I think the most immediate failure mode on all of these is political. Like if we see a big flip around they'll get killed again where the mission change or sorry the permissionless chains will maybe suffer in price a little bit but probably not. But I am surprised that the banks, I mean they're already trying to rewrite the genius act so that Coinbase can stop to prevent Coinbase from offering rewards. And one way or another the banks are finished either from the fintechs or crypto or both the big ones around and are kind of tech companies anyway but it is only regulatory capture protecting them at this point.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I mean I think it is both because payments is quite different from. From lots of other things happening on the blockchain side. Right.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: You know, savings store of value Dapps. You're not going to run Dapps on Tempo.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Save your money in Tempo Coin.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: I. I mean I agree there will not be a lot of like defi on Tempo for instance at sort of because it would be too closed of environment. You won't get the compositional aspect of things probably because they won't allow it. Like I think in theory you could but you won't.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So my view is that the projects that might succeed in this space have to have two properties. One is they have to be driven by a at least mostly one company. I don't think this like idea of like the bigger names who have all together like you know we've experienced this. That just slows everything down to your.

SPEAKER_00: Point of grandstanding and it just legal departments.

SPEAKER_01: It sounds good but it's. It operationally it's terrible. But the other thing is that they have to have that sort of community mindset from the start. Like I think things like Base and Binance Chain have been able to do this because they brought a web3 mentality, even though they drove it at first. And so I think the projects are likely to kind of evolve. Are those kind of projects? That, that would be my prediction.

SPEAKER_02: And I guess also because, you know, their customer base are crypto people, you know, it's a similar kind of group.

SPEAKER_01: And they understand those commands. Right? Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Like Tempo will be going for retail. It's going to be normal retail. You know, Apple Pay, Tempo pay.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, you're not going to know you're using Tempo. Most likely it could, yeah, I guess the banks could really suffer or it could be the credit card networks that really suffer.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, I think the first victim is swift, really like I think. But yeah. So. Well, on that note, I'll give a quick preview to everyone. Let's wrap up today's conversation. Thank you for joining us. Quick preview for next week. We have Brian, founder of Pistachio Fi, joining us next week to talk about, you know, starting a new project and his background. Actually he was previously an employee at Block App, so we know him very, very well. So if you want to find us, we're always doing this every week. But if you want to find me, you can find me on X at Vic4Wong. You can find out why it's I have the form. My name Bob has posted that on our telegram. Thanks, Bob. Where can people find you for if they want to hear more from you?

SPEAKER_02: So yeah, again X. So Bob, summer will. So summer like the season will like write your will.

SPEAKER_01: That's me and Kieran. Where can people find you?

SPEAKER_00: Also X K James Lubin. That's K James Lubin. L U B I N James. J M E S.

SPEAKER_01: Well, thank you everyone for joining us and have a great week. Talk to you soon.

SPEAKER_02: Thanks, guys.

SPEAKER_01: Thanks.