SPEAKER_00: Okay. We are live, and we have a very special episode today. We are talking about the future of art and NFTs, and we're joined by special guest and very old friend, John Crane. Welcome, John Crane.

SPEAKER_01: Hey, Victor. Hey, everyone. Hey. Good to see you guys. Thanks for having me.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Remember how you heard about the hackathon or Ethereum generally? Obviously, we met there, but, like, what was that Yeah. Your yeah.

SPEAKER_03: how you heard about the hackathon or Ethereum generally?

SPEAKER_01: So I was kinda hanging out with the New York Bitcoin crowd. I see. Act yeah. I had actually met, I think, John, which I forgot, but I met him at the, like, the New York Bitcoin Center. I don't know if you guys remember that. Yep. We do. Yeah. Yeah. So I was hanging around, and, actually, I was, like, super into counterparty, so I was very much like, Ethereum's too complicated. You know, Metallic's full of shit. It's not gonna work. And then the network launched, and I was like, okay. I was wrong. Like, this is actually super cool. Like, you know, I have no problem changing. I was like, I was totally wrong. This is amazing. And I was just, like, googling Ethereum blockchain hackathon. I was, like, trying to find, like, get deeper involved. You know, I was trying like, quit my day job and go full time crypto.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And to be clear, you to let everyone know that we were blown away by you and your brother's Charles' project, and we gave you, I think, your first job, both of you in web three. Right?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean, it was super interesting. Right? You know, like, we were all kind of on the Ground Floor at the Consensus office or, like, know, at least me and Kieran were hanging out there. And, like, watching the ICO boom happen was fascinating because I was like, I met me and Kieran talked a bunch about, you know, ERC 20 tokens, and, like, I found it was, like, super interesting that it was this very small bit of stand like, you know, it's a it's a super simple protocol, very simple code. But, like, the adoption created this like, yeah, there's massive wealth generation. And even if there were also lots of scams, I'd say generally net positive for, you know, humans and the economy. Like, it was, like, incredible to see that happen. And so then I saw some of the standards conversations around ERC-seven 21, and, like, I saw the CryptoPunks launch. And I was like, oh, this is pretty crazy. If you think about the consumer web, it's all, you know, an image and a title tag and some metadata. So, like, it could be that, like, the entire consumer web turns into, like, NFTs and that, you know, like I don't know exactly what the business model is gonna look like, but the, you know, the total addressable market is probably pretty large. So that got me into NFTs. And then on the flip side of that, I was also kinda in and around the New York art scene, like, know, going to the art fairs. I had friends who were, you know, looking for gallery representation and kinda part of the, you know, the business of art. And it just seemed obvious. I was like, oh, there's now a way to kinda, like, truly own digital assets, and this is obviously gonna apply to digital art. So it's kinda like the marriage of, you know, like, my interest in the tech side, but then also my interest and passions around art.

SPEAKER_00: And, like, what was it like to be at the forefront of, like, the NFT explosion? Because you guys, I I know for a long time you were building, and it was like, oh, you know, like, how's it going? And, you know, the like, no one is really paying attention. And all of a sudden, you know, next day, everyone's talking about NFTs.

SPEAKER_01: It was absolutely crazy. It was hard to be like it's just, like, completely surreal the whole time. Like, it felt like a dream. Like, we started in 2018. We tried to raise money. It never really worked. Like, by the time we raised, we were already, you know, cash flow positive and, like, making more than we were paying ourselves. So that's best situation to possibly be. Yeah. It was, like, it was much easier to raise then than when I was like, I have this really cool idea. So it was, yeah, it was like, you know, it was a grind. It was super volatile many times. I was just like, what am I doing with my life? But, yeah, then it just really started, like I remember the numbers were, like, doubling every month for a while. Like, remember it was October 2020. It was our first million dollar month in volume, and I was just like, this is wild. You know?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And were you guys the first self minting NFT platform? I think, like, we're we were trying to talk about that, actually.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. We were the first to come like, I think there were maybe a couple other minting tools, but, like, we were the first to combine, like, the minting and the marketplace experience. So was like, there weren't, like, great minting tools then. So we started with the minting tool, and then we're like, alright. I guess people need a place to sell this, so we'll, like, we'll build the marketplace too. And, you know, it's partially just out of necessity because, like, the tooling sucked at the time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. It's funny because I remember if you recall, the what labor became the flow guys doing CryptoKitties. They were based in Vancouver, and I was, like Mhmm. Talking to them about, you know, running it on our blockchain and doing that kind of stuff too at the time.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. We actually just did a huge airdrop. Probably one of our mistakes Is, like, So, like, we should've probably, you know, sold a bunch of tokens, but we actually just gave them away. And yeah. I mean, yeah, there's plenty of challenges to, like you know, DAOs are hard to manage and run. But, yeah, it's cool to see the current administration kinda, like, change tack and actually seem like they're interested in, like, building and pushing forward.

SPEAKER_00: What do you think the biggest challenge was in running a DAO? Because I think all of us had that sort of as an ideal state with the crypto kool aid, you know, running things completely decentral. What do you think are, you know, the challenges you faced when you did it and that are still out there, do you think?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean, one of the bigger challenges is regulatory. Regulatory. Like, you have to try to read the tea leaves, and then rather than just making, like, the bet you're like, okay. Well, this is the simplest, best decision. You're like, okay. Well, this is not clear what this means, so maybe we should do this. And, like, how do we, you know, not get in trouble for trying to experiment? And it's obviously you know, the position is friendlier, but there's still no clear, like, rules.

SPEAKER_02: Gary's gonna be turning up for a job somewhere soon, isn't he?

SPEAKER_03: Man. Do you think of it more like the advice? Do you think of it more like it should be, like, a representative democracy? Like, should be be be, like, passing bills in there? I think they're, like, the proposals and there's, like, delegation usually is the model for it. Could also be, like, just, like, you got a couple leaders, but the stake could call confidence vote or something or, like, people like too.

SPEAKER_01: I think and and I think it kinda depends on, like, specifically what you're doing. You know, if it's something like, you know, Bitcoin and Ethereum are obviously not DAOs, but just, you know, where it's, like, if small changes can have potentially, like, catastrophic impact, I think that's one thing. If you know it's you know, like, super where it's, like, if there's a low level protocol and there's application and, like, you know, other than, like, the escrow contracts for auctions and things, like, the stakes are, like, fairly low. I do kinda like the idea of, like, you'd sorta like if you can empower, like, a team or a few individuals to kinda just keep going, and then the token holders can say, like, tell people to stop versus, like, having to approve everything. Like, that's a very silly arduous process. And I feel like it should be more like, okay. If you're it's, like, veering off in the wrong direction, you can like, there's a way to kinda, like, raise your voice and have influence it. But, like, you know, having a vote on, like, what color the button should be or something is very absurd.

SPEAKER_00: I'm curious, like, you know, given that you're a decentralization advocate, how do you balance, like, being a curated kind of platform and being open? You know? Like, how do you think about those two? Because I think one of the advantages of Super Rare with the curation side and art, you keep the quality very, very high. And Yeah. Unlike, you know, more marketplace type NFT platforms, which just frankly puts a ton of crap out there. So yeah. How do you balance those two?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. No. It's kinda challenging, and it's almost, almost a paradox. But I think we've kind of always taken the minimal decentralization. So it's like, you have it where it's useful, and then one example is, like, we were talking about token models early on. I was like, maybe we'll have token holders vote on artists. And I was just like, that sounds like the most dramatic, terrible thing I could ever imagine. You know? It's like people voting, like, your art's terrible. Like, you know, oh my word.

SPEAKER_03: I mean, in the the pumped up fun streamer heyday, I think that it could have really worked during that period of time. Exact yeah. You know, maybe we have people stream live going is the art good or bad? Watch this artist threaten to commit suicide.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. It's like, live going. Like, is the art good or bad? Watch this artist threaten to commit suicide. I did do a stalk on a dating project once where you basically had to be voted in based on your notes, which does seem horrible. Very, very evil. You know? But there's right now 10 pages. Remember those? Yes. Yes. Or hot or not or all of those Oh, yeah. Yeah. Just brutal.

SPEAKER_00: I did do a stalk on a dating project once where you basically had to be voted in based on your notes, which does seem horrible. Very, very evil. You know? But there's right now 10 pages. Remember those? Yes. Yes. Or hot or not or all of those Oh, yeah. Yeah. Just brutal.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. It's challenging and, you know, art like good art is subjective. So that, you know, it's like I feel like the on chain auctions, escrow on chain, that makes a lot of sense. Like, on chain voting for which artists are good. You know, that's kinda let people who are making decisions do their thing. And then if it starts to be, you know, like, if things get out of hand, maybe the token holders can raise awareness. But yeah. That was part of it too I mean, actually, early on, we were thought we would be more of an open platform. And then as things progressed, there were more tools. Like, we were just trying to add value and there's a ton of open tooling. So, early on, we kinda thought we might have super areas, like the ultra curated view into the market, and then maybe you have another kinda, like, open platform that's anyone could use.

SPEAKER_00: And so then we basically stayed up for thirty six hours, fixing bugs. And I'm getting flashbacks to when Microsoft said we wanna launch blockchain as a service with you at DEFCON one, and we were like Exactly. Oh my god. Like that's like there are many parallels.

SPEAKER_02: Exact We need the mission accomplished banner. You know? Yeah. Oh my goodness, man.

SPEAKER_03: I remember how you heard about the hackathon or Ethereum generally?

SPEAKER_01: Well, yeah. Exactly. That's when it gets real risky. We actually so when we did it, there was a funny bug with the like the React stuff. So we're live helping we were live streaming or not live streaming, but like screen sharing the transaction with this artist, Ravi Bharat and Jason. And we're literally pushing fixes. It was like oh we didn't expect that to happen. Like okay one second. Alright it's deployed just reload the page.

SPEAKER_00: Lots of cash clearing in exactly. I don't remember about that. I you know, like, I'm curious what you see as the future of just generally, like art and NFT is like, you know Can I jump in on this? Yeah. Please. Give take a take on it.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. In DeFi we're starting to see like as the administration has cleared the way to some extent, there was a pent up demand for something like a TradFi DeFi merger. It's not all the way there yet but it's you know getting to just be FI. Like I see the path to that happening.

SPEAKER_03: It seems like you know there was a pent up demand for something like a TradFi, DeFi merger. It's not all the way there yet, but it's you know getting to just be FI. Like I see the path to that happening.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I do think NFTs will stay sort of like a distinct asset class forever. You know, maybe you could talk about your gallery. I know you started to do a lot of like physical sales etcetera. Like does it kinda what or, you know, do they merge? Do they not?

SPEAKER_03: Let me add a little on that front. So I felt having been more of an NFT style RWA marketplace for a while and gone more DeFi we I thought people wanted to tokenize to sell things at first, and this is true. But I think it's better that they tokenize to unlock liquidity in selling could be one way but people kinda wanna hold on to stuff like I don't wanna sell my ETH I don't wanna sell my you know etcetera.

SPEAKER_01: I think that's painful.

SPEAKER_03: You would know better than us. At the very high end of the market, you know if you get like a wealth manager they'll they might extend some credit against your Picasso right or what have you But for everybody else and you probably have to have a lot of separate money for that too.

SPEAKER_01: I think that's painful.

SPEAKER_03: You would know better than us. At the very high end of the market, you know if you get like a wealth manager they'll they might extend some credit against your Picasso right or what have you But for everybody else and you probably have to have a lot of separate money for that too.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean we're focusing our expansion like, you know, we launched the gallery earlier this year offline gallery it's on the Bowery right next to the new museum and yeah I think if you look at the models like galleries are not doing great business wise the auction houses are hurting everyone's trying to find a more sustainable model.

SPEAKER_03: It's stuff is so illiquid. Right? I don't mean to interrupt. Right? It's just I think the norm is stuff sitting five years, ten years with you know and it's feast or famine. Like if we print a bunch of money probably get a bunch of transactions. Yep. Just wait. Yeah. Like 2021 people were just buying Picassos on their phones online.

SPEAKER_01: People were just, you know, buying Picassos on their phones on like, online. And crazy apes. Right? So yeah. They all everything ether rocks. I remember when ether rocks were, like, the price is exploding and I was like this is truly amazing.

SPEAKER_00: And crazy apes. Right? So yeah. They all everything ether rocks. I remember when ether rocks were, like, the price is exploding and I was like this is truly amazing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. It's a very high friction like the transactions are very, very high friction which is good you know depending on where your position is in the market. Like obviously loves being the keeper of all secrets and information okay cool but I yeah I think that's clearly gonna be disintermediated with technology.

SPEAKER_03: Any new or maybe you are you guys, you know, just to declare war on the auction houses, houses, you know, other high end physical goods? What

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean we're focusing like our expansion like you know we launched the gallery earlier this year offline gallery it's on the Bowery right next to the new museum and yeah I think if you look at the models like galleries are not doing great business wise the auction houses are hurting everyone's trying to find a more sustainable model.

SPEAKER_03: It sounds like even the big guys want more liquidity but they're not willing to, like, let go of their proprietary information advantage I guess. Is that fair to say? Exactly.

SPEAKER_01: And I but it's and I like that's a kind of also the paradox. It's like you'll have more liquidity if it's better access to information but, like, you know, it's the classic what's the The what? Innovator's dilemma? The Innovator's dilemma. Exactly. I was like yeah tip my tongue Yeah classic Innovator's dilemma.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I think some of the auction houses are even trying to offer loans to try and lock people up even longer right to their places. Yeah they have,

SPEAKER_01: I mean, I you know like they're all Christie's and some of the like a lot of the big or most of the auction houses are private so I don't know how big their businesses are But they do have people will like inherit art and it's like don't really care necessarily and their adviser was like don't sell that you should just take out a loan And so they do have them.

SPEAKER_00: But that seems like a classic conflict of interest to your point. Right? Like like,

SPEAKER_01: oh we'll tell you how much it's worth and we'll loan you based on that Yeah it's very one-sided and you can't really shop it around It's like ultra specialized information.

SPEAKER_00: Jim, did you wanna ask a question? You look like you you came off mute. Well, it's a little bit of a different topic but I I'll throw it in right now anyway. What has been the effect for good or bad of AI on art on what you're doing?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. As far as the startup goes, it's been great. We got a little robot on our Slack you can talk to that does things for you. As far as the art market goes, I think it's all I mean, it's also been kinda great. Like in my mind, this is just like a new tool that unlocks create you know like you can kind of do different creative things. It You're in close to encouraging it then. Yeah. Oh yeah we have like tons of artists use AI. I mean you know there's also tons of artists we work with who hate it and you know think it's the the end of all creativity But I think just if you look history I think you like what it really enables is somebody to do more complex things You know it's like where you can, like, all the grunt work you don't have to do. So now maybe it's instead of making one still image you're gonna do insane world building where it's like you can go in and the art's just more interactive Actually the first art we ever sold on Super Air was kinda generated via GAN It's like adversarial networks like voting on outcomes So I think, you know, it's inevitable. It's gonna happen.

SPEAKER_00: But do you think going back to the metadata and certificates of authority that proving some part was based you know done by a human will be valued into

SPEAKER_01: our kind of or any kind of creation going forward. Yeah. I mean, I think yeah Just if you you know it's like it's super amazing to see the rate at which content's being created and people it's like you can watch a video of that person didn't actually say that but looks like they did I think that's where you know nobody ever answers a random phone number. If someone's calling you and it it's not in your phone, you're like I literally never answered this You have to be pretty insane. And so it's sorta like you've kinda certified the numbers you know and I think it'll end up being the same with content and art and stuff where it's like if it isn't you know signed somehow cryptographically you'll probably just assume it's fake Yeah because there's no real way to know.

SPEAKER_02: Have you seen much interest on the Bitcoin side in terms of ordinals and inscriptions and stamps and runes? Like, how yeah is that looking?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. We've done a couple projects on runes with artists And yeah it's super interesting You know we're yeah I think there's gonna be art on many blockchains Obviously you know Bitcoin and Ethereum being the most secure probably have the highest likelihood of it lasting But yeah they're quite popular I, you know, I think they'll be around for a while.

SPEAKER_02: And another difference you have there right is that they're doing the data carrying on chain as well versus an external URL which is another interesting difference. Yeah totally.

SPEAKER_00: I'm curious about the decision to you know, you mentioned starting the gallery. And like everyone's talking about RWAs and kind of bringing real world stuff into the blockchain but you're kind of doing the opposite. Like what was the decision to start a physical gallery? And, you know, why did you decide that was a logical next step for you guys?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean just it's part it's kinda part of how the market works So in people like getting together and a lot of the art it's like you can look at it on your phone but if you see it on the huge projector there's a 10 by 10 CRT TV wall It really looks different. So I think part of it is community building. It's a space people can show up, and then part of it's the art really does just look different.

SPEAKER_00: Be beyond art what do you see as the next area? Like you know what's the next areas that are kind of gonna need these kind of provenance or these kind of certificates of authority? I mean, I can think of a million but I'm just curious. From your point of view where do you see the next elements getting into it first?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I mean in general it's like luxury assets where NFTs are still more expensive to create than not having one You know, you just print one out and then the ID lives in your database Yeah And I think but it's gonna be the customers are gonna have to demand it. You know a lot of brokers and folks they do their kinda information advantage so they don't really want this to exist But I think it just makes so much sense It's just hard to imagine that it doesn't happen So we're see people taking wine very seriously issuing NFTs and building secondary markets.

SPEAKER_02: Handbags, I think, are a big one. Like, I Hermes One of the really popular ones right now is

SPEAKER_01: trading cards So they're like you know what people like is like so the courtyard is still going Right? The I think they Yeah They're doing great Yeah It's kinda like you have the speculative aspect but also if you're a serious collector you can get real things.

SPEAKER_00: Okay. Last question for you because we unless anyone else has one But no No We just got a quick for things Yeah

SPEAKER_01: Yeah

SPEAKER_00: Is that are you most excited about in any aspect of the blockchain space right now?

SPEAKER_01: Most excited I mean it's like obviously we've all been working on this for a super long time but I do think if you look at even just BlackRock's putting treasuries on chain with different partners like everything literally is gonna become moving on chain. Like, I think it's that actually finally it used to just be a mantra people would say to help themselves feel important But, like, I think we're finally getting there We're like holy fuck Everything is moving on chain. It's yeah the you know liquidity is increasing and it feels actually like it's finally happening So it's taken way longer but we're still here and we're still doing it.

SPEAKER_02: Exact We need the mission accomplished banner. You know? Yeah Oh my goodness, man.

SPEAKER_00: Exactly. Well, John, thank you for your time. And as always, we're really glad that you're doing so well. And where can people find you and learn more about all the stuff you do?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. On x at super air, John, at super air. Yeah We're yeah You should also there's currently a show at the gallery that's wrapping up but we have a new x copy show at December 10. So if anyone's in town it's a group you said gallery

SPEAKER_03: One more time? I missed it First Yeah Offline by Super Air. Offline by Super

SPEAKER_00: Well, awesome. Thank you for joining us and take care everyone. Thanks for having me.