SPEAKER_00: Alrighty. So we're on. Thanks. So my name is Karen James Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James from SDR and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together, called block apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride, you know, that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. And so we wanted to kind of get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity, and here we are. So with that said, I'll kinda take the lead on the discussion, but we you know, we're we're not trying to be formal here. Trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one, so we're gonna find out how it goes. Alrighty. So let's let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start, and there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware I'm gonna say 2010, possibly 2011, so this would have been my senior year in undergrad, of Bitcoin. And I distinctly remember it being $3 down from a recent peak of 14 or $15. I thought it was interesting and, you know, looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. You know, I'd if you ask me then, I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and, you know, digital banking or a pay a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

SPEAKER_01: When were you first aware of Bitcoin slash Where is different than, like, interested? In fact, like, I I don't know. I was like I I came from an academic background, so I'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it. But but I was, like, a little bit too too above all that. Like, oh, that's like a money thing. I'm I'm not interested in that money world. So, really, no. Like, the interest came from when you reached out to Steve, was a, an old friend of mine and that Kieran had been following his blog. And and, Steve called me up, and he's like, this guy Kieran just called me up, and you you have to go look at this Ethereum thing. And so, at first, I was like, yeah. You know, I'm not interested in all this this fake money thing. And I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about, like like, banking or something. This is about incentivization on the Internet, and that drew me in. So and at that point, I I and there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I I started, like, trying to write code that would, connect to one of the peers and see how they and and at the time, it was a test net. And, and that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. So, well, I don't know. Let me pass it on to Victor.

SPEAKER_02: But let's let's hold on it for just a a moment. Vic, do you wanna take it? Yeah. I think I became aware of it around the same time as you. I was I was, you know, doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time, and I I felt really disconnected from North America, so I became sort of an early fan of podcasts. And one of the big podcast networks was this thing called Twit that was, like, all technical podcasts. And one of the podcasts I really love was this podcast, security now, which went really deep into these kind of, like, security technical kind of things. And he did, like, a couple episodes of Bitcoin. And I was, like, you know, really, really fascinated by it, but mostly from a technical angle, like and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it, didn't get any Bitcoin. Or if I did, I did notice it. I I wish I think the rewards were, like, 50 at the time or something like this. But the the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be, like, groups of computers in, like, part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, like, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, you know, we can, like, transfer money and, like, it's basically free Internet magic money. And I was like, I I honestly was were kind of repelled by that. Like, that kind of seemed, like, too nutty even for me at the time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Let's, Jim, we'll pick that up. I'm I'm trying to a little bit stay chronological, so I you know, 2010, 2011 sounds like same time frame for you. I think, we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era, and we'll talk in more detail.

SPEAKER_02: But let's let's hold on it for just a a moment. Vic, do you wanna take it? Yeah. I think I became aware of it around the same time as you. I was I was, you know, doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time, and I I felt really disconnected from North America, so I became sort of an early fan of podcasts. And one of the big podcast networks was this thing called Twit that was, like, all technical podcasts. And one of the podcasts I really love was this podcast, security now, which went really deep into these kind of, like, security technical kind of things. And he did, like, a couple episodes of Bitcoin. And I was, like, you know, really, really fascinated by it, but mostly from a technical angle, like and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it, didn't get any Bitcoin. Or if I did, I did notice it. I I wish I think the rewards were, like, 50 at the time or something like this. But the the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be, like, groups of computers in, like, part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, like, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, you know, we can, like, transfer money and, like, it's basically free Internet magic money. And I was like, I I honestly was were kind of repelled by that. Like, that kind of seemed, like, too nutty even for me at the time.

SPEAKER_00: I never hated it. I was sort of just, like, not that interested, I guess. You know, I think, you know, from the East Coast, the attitude towards, like, stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think, Jimmy, would long since been out in California doing, like, yeah, you know, after your physics days. But when doing grad stuff, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kinda like like, I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it. I see. I I didn't hate it, but I think

SPEAKER_02: I found the like like, everyone talked about so I was fascinated the technical aspect, like I said. Like, you know, I and it got me to read the white paper and even, like, download the software. But I think the part that kind of turned me off a bit was, like, when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like, who were setting up Bitcoin mining rigs, they're like they were, like, kind of fanatical. Like, there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off, I would say. Yeah. Jim, I would say

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. The people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were gonna get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it, but, yeah, I I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract, like, the classically most successful in some sense people at that time, whereas, you know, fighting against, not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs, like, in math or physics or or something. It's just like the most horsepower wins from a, you know, intellectual perspective and, I guess, the hardest working horsepower. Very few of those people got interested in in, you know, crypto blockchain. A few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones as far as, you know, compared to younger ones, like folks like Dan Benet, etcetera. But, yeah, I think I don't know that it was that I was too good for it, but that, one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess. Yeah. I I would describe my view of it in the early days was

SPEAKER_02: sketchy because most of the use cases that like, I thought the technology was fascinating, but whenever I would ask about you know, I'm a product guy, so I would always ask, like, what's the use case? Why would you use it? And people would describe, you know, things to circumvent existing laws. Like, the big one in China that I remember is like, oh, I can transfer money and bypass, you know, foreign exchange rules and stuff. So I was like, is that legal? And, like, no one would, you know, mention anything afterwards, basically.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I I wanna say I got Sorry. I

SPEAKER_01: got over feeling too good for it. I'll tell you that.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And we all did it. Yeah. I I wanna touch on the other the big thing that sticks out of my memory from the the early blockchain era is and and we've kinda gone through this kind of cycle a couple times was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox Mhmm. Was that first big price run up. I believe Bitcoin went from, like, $30 to $1,200 in Yep. A pretty short time frame. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. To some extent, consumer interest tracks with the price, and, people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in, and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts, and someone is fleeced at the top. You know? And, you know, whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And then sort of the crypto is somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be, you know, quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone lots of people I knew who were not quite

SPEAKER_01: crypto savvy in the industry, etcetera, were suddenly paying attention when was happening. With the hot topic just getting into things. Yeah. I I what year was it? Was it 2015, 2014? 2014, probably. Right? I think docs was 13. Let me check. Yeah. I think was 13. Yeah. Okay. So that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. I was new enough to it that it was still I was observing it as a, you know, like, a third party. You know? It was it was interesting to me. But but, yeah, I I think I I spent a little time to understand what because, you know, the newspaper coverage, like usual, was terrible about it. They didn't explain what was going on. So I spent a little time to understand that, yes, there was a problem, but, no, it had nothing to do with blockchain. It was, it was oh, there's

SPEAKER_00: I think you're right. So the run up was actually'13 into the'14, it it looks like. Or okay. So it officially shuttered February. Though and the big the 1200 that I remember was, like, November 2013,

SPEAKER_02: it looks like. When did the hack happen? December. Oh, it happened. Right here. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Happened right there. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So, yeah, interesting times for sure. Because I think MonkDocs

SPEAKER_02: and oh, what was I'm blanking right now. What what was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used Silk Road. Silk Road. Yeah. Like, I think it's those were kind of intertwined in in those early days. Right? So I remember, like, even you going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about, and I was kinda shocked with what I saw listed there. Like, you know, lots of illicit stuff was list listed there. You know? That's

SPEAKER_00: wow. You know, I think I never did that. I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road. Just heard about it at length. I had an account, and some others. There's a period where, like, was doing crypto stuff, and then I think they stopped. And I I believe they're still around as, like, a payment API company. But

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Because I I remember them and some others. I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other, and that was, like, the sort of, like you know, as we've as you mentioned, like, the first kind of iteration of, like, oh, you know, all crypto and blockchain is dead now, and then and then it just keeps coming back. Right?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. It sure does.

SPEAKER_01: Okay. There's a little bit of bias in the new the news on how they cover, problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional, world. Like, if if there's if there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, that means that like, it might mean that there we need a little more regulation or something, but that that was a bad person. So it's always, like, much more tied into you know, the the price of of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens. But you don't see, like, crashing because, like, somebody commits fraud somewhere. I mean, I guess fraud's big enough. But

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Agreed. Just segue does happen sometimes. Yeah. Segueing quickly, can you guys go into how you met? Because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole how we all Yeah. Jim, do do I do I wanna start, or do you wanna start?

SPEAKER_01: I'll start, and and I'll pass it over. I, actually so I had, back in the nineties, was in academia in the in the aughts. I was, in the startup world, and I'd done a couple startups. And I was ending one of my startups, and I had, two sons who were in the our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And I, at at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I, had ended jobs. And we said, hey. Let's just been crazy right now, and and let's let's take this to to its extension. Let's let's go to China and actually put them in a school there. So I called around some various friends, and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing. And he says, I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys. So in fact, let me pass it over to you right now, and you can explain. Well yeah. And and so the VC,

SPEAKER_02: you know, who we're still friends with, like, he kinda came up to me, and he he explicitly said, like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO, and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So you know what? Don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started talking that summer, and you weren't, like, traveling in the country, so you were, like, in a different place every couple of advantage of us both

SPEAKER_01: being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country.

SPEAKER_02: And and I remember, like, you know, like, we were kinda talking over the summer, and I was, like, you know, seeing how serious you were about coming. And and at one point, you said, okay. Look. If you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come and take the job to Beijing. And I went to the school that my kids went to, which and said, like, you know, can you make space for, you know, two foreign kids, this inter international program? They said, yes. If you can but the kids have to be here the first day of school. And first day of school was two weeks from that conversation. So I called Jim up and said, look. I can do it. You know, I can guarantee a place for them, but you have to be here on this day. And to my shock, he actually said yes, and he, like, parked up his house and, like, you know, he turned off packed everything in the house in, like I think we had twelve days to be in school, and we probably were

SPEAKER_01: the had to have the house back within, like like, I don't know, less than a week. So Yeah. That was a crazy week. But but Victor was a great help in like, we were going to a country we'd never been to before, didn't know much about. Victor had also, moved to Asia a few years earlier, and so he had sort of scoped out everything. And he knew he knew where the good schools were. He knew where the good apartment buildings were, helped us out tremendously.

SPEAKER_02: So Yeah. It was a great experience. It was an exciting time to be in China. It was right around the first Olympics. You know? Like, it was right around that the Beijing Olympics, and so it's a really exciting time. But, yeah, you wound up staying for about eighteen months, right, in total? And A little less, but, yeah, it was it was over a year. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Gotcha. Gotcha. Very cool. And so then you're back 2012 or early twenty thirteen, something like that.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. We were back at, when did we come back? I guess we were back in the country in 2013. Gotcha. It's about, like, January.

SPEAKER_00: Let me I'll segue. I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep, you know, everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school, at at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. Mhmm. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but, basically, the I had passed my qualifying exam, I'm gonna say, 2014 or, you know, maybe May, April or May 2014. So for those who have not, not aware of how, PhD program works, qualifying exam is, like, one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis. So sometimes there's a coursework requirement. Sometimes you need to, you know, translate a work from, like, an academic work from one language to to another to show proficiency. I think, most of them have dropped those requirements, at this point. And so, you know, it's a whole bunch of study, intense prep at Berkeley. It's a three hour oral exam with couple people from your department and one from an external department, and then they give you a pass or not. I got a pass, thankfully. It was a I don't know that it was it was everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam except the people who are really good. Right? Like, and, you know, so while I passed it, I it it was, like, you know, didn't feel great the at least the rest of that day.

SPEAKER_01: But when do you find out the result? Like, is it Immediately. Oh, you do? Okay. They put you in the hall, and they tell you. Yeah. Okay. That's good. So you're just, like, very nervous for I don't know what it was like for you, but for me, it was just, like, three guys I knew. And I I was nervous too, but it wasn't like they had to go and, like, you know, like, calculate numbers or something. They just kinda come out, and they're like, yeah. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Exactly. It no. It was it was like that. Right? Yeah. It's it's a oral. It's subjective in a sense, but, you know, there you've got, like, several of the world's foremost experts, you know, in some subjects. So they're able to assess whether you understand it enough or not to proceed with research. So, anyways, so I kind of the qualifying exam led to you know, I I needed, like, a short break from math. I was in mathematical physics, and I had almost taken a job working for sort of a data science company that was taking I can't quite remember. So something having to do with, like, Nielsen TV ratings and doing something with the data and maybe selling it back to, networks. I I can't can't remember at this time. But, you know, it seemed like a okay thing. And I also wanted to go back to New York for the summer. I'm from New York. And, you know, as as with many New Yorkers, it took some time to adapt to the California culture, and I didn't fully do it. I still, you know, I'm prone sometimes to bash the Bay Area, but I still kinda like it there. But anyway That's by the way. Yes. Yes. Jim's there. I'm I'm in the state of New York at the moment. But but yeah. But I, know, I need a little break, basically. And it ended up being possible to work on the Ethereum project. So somehow, my you know, I guess I'll go into this somehow. My dad, Joe got attached to the project basically because he was always he was tracking Bitcoin and blockchain for a long time. He had a CS background plus the financial background and ran a hedge fund for a number of years. And so it's just kind of always watching technological innovations in financial services. And I guess always had a little bit of the, you know, blockchain philosophical character, in that, you know, let's say, pro pro freedom, little little bit of a libertarian streak kinda thing. And I believe he happened to just be visiting our family. So he's from Toronto. A lot of, a lot of blockchain people in Toronto for one reason or another. And he went, I believe, to it might have been a Bitcoin meetup at that time, or it might have been the first Ethereum meetup. But this would have been January, February 2014, I believe. And Vitalik was speaking there. And, you know, like everyone around that time where you you see that Alex speak about something, you got really excited. Right? And so he actually got ready to start helping out the project right away. He actually thought for a time that he might be a software developer for the project, and, you know, it did didn't turn out that way. We can go into it, a little bit later. But he started working on it again, let's say, February, March, 2014. And so he just sent me the white paper, like, right after or maybe right before my qualifying exam. I got a chance to read it, and it was pretty cool and interesting and new. And it's that was sort of the first time I grasped the potential of technology, and it caused me to go back and read the Bitcoin white paper, etcetera. And it was sort of exciting enough to work on for that summer, basically. So that's how I got into it. And, subsequently, you know, Jim Jim alluded to this earlier, I started to work with the project and reached out to Steve Shu, a great great friend of ours. Kind of I don't know. Not not quite famously brilliant. Definitely brilliant, somewhat famous. Super cool guy, and I'd I'd been a longtime reader of Steve's blog. He's one of the few really excellent kind of general communicators who's a super technical guy, but most people who are really technical in communication have a hard time, I don't know, distilling it for at least kind of a mass market audience, but Steve is actually good at that, but with Nuance coverage of technical topics. So, anyway, caught up with Steve, and that takes us to Steve forwarding on the Ethereum white paper.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I was just like, oh, this is a really cool thing. And so I started working on it. And then we started meeting at my Berkeley apartment. So as Jim alluded to, we would meet up at one on, I'm gonna say, Telegraph just north of Ashby. Yeah. Just on the right by the Oakland border. And then later, we we met at a a different one. Right? Campus. Very close to campus. Yeah. Like Bancroft and Telegraph. And, you know, so it was an open source project. And there was because lots of people were making their own versions of it, there was sort of a, like I said, a fight for the definition of it, which is in the end settled by the yellow paper. But, you know, I can you talk a little bit about that time where we're just coding really hard, you you and I, and just, like, trying to keep pace with the the spec, etcetera?

SPEAKER_00: That was Actually, you you had just repressed that memory. The so mostly, Jim figured all of this out, but they so the Ethereum people put, just for the technical audience, kind of the equivalent of something like SSL into the product. So in they you know? Yeah. And they put end to end encryption in, and this is a complex, like, handshake, and then, like, a session was created between peers and yada yada. And so it's really hard to implement stuff like that because all of the the mess you're getting back is encrypted. So you have to get it totally perfect, and then it makes sense. But if you don't get it perfect, nothing makes sense, and you don't know why.

SPEAKER_01: I was just irrationally angry about it. Like, I was like, I I didn't care whether this was good or or bad for the for the product. I was like, why? But I was actually genuinely confused too because you have, like, this open network that anyone can connect to, but you wanna encrypt everything that's going on it. It took me a while to figure out why that actually happened. I I was asking around in various, like, DM services. I don't remember where where I used to go and talk to people.

SPEAKER_02: I found There were the giants Skype threads, I remember at the time. Oh, lord. There was, like, huge like, we this was, like I think we weren't even using Slack yet. It was, like, there was tons of Skype. Slack was just getting popular at this time. Ethereum had a Slack.

SPEAKER_00: ConsenSys had a Slack. We can get into the consensus story a little bit. And the but, yeah, we had a Skype thread for some reason, you know, like, just because it was the thing that people used for a threaded discussion group. I think WhatsApp maybe wasn't popular or Yeah. Not for this purpose. You know? So

SPEAKER_01: we spent a month It's dug around a while. I dug around a while to figure out why in the world encryption had even been added to this. And I I would kept getting sort of like, oh, we wanna make sure that this, information is private. And I was like, it doesn't make sense. I can connect anywhere and and see this stuff. Finally found one of the people that had implemented it, and the the idea wasn't crazy. It had nothing to do with I mean, guess it had something to do with encryption, but but their thought process is that it was more about identity. They wanted, if once you join, you wanted to have essentially, like, a cert that verified that you are who you say you are, and they wanted that there for, the various, extensions that they were putting in. And so okay. That that that wasn't crazy. It was very annoying to me to spend a week of my life trying to influence. But the other thing that's kind of funny is that and I maybe, Karen, you know more from talking to people over the summer, but there was sort of a distrust in standards. And so, like, I think, like, the thing that usual software engineer would do is be to actually get SSL and implement it with that, or or to take, like like, I don't know, hash algorithms that were, that had, like, a corporate stamp of approval and put that in. But they always wanted to sort of, like, put things a little bit outside of there because I think they feared maybe truthfully of, backdoors and all of these things. And so I essentially had to go and get a lot of nonstandard encryption algorithms and and paste them together into an SSL like thing. So

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I I can add a little bit on that. I would say the building blocks were at least semi standard. They they use the same elliptic curve as Bitcoin for the actual, you know, signatures and transfer from the money and and all that. The algorithms that went into the reinvention of SSL, like, I think the building blocks were just normal stuff. They didn't invent hashing algorithms or signing algorithms and and all that sort of thing. But the composition is something you have to be quite careful about. They weren't they weren't just inventing encryption.

SPEAKER_01: So they were taking things that were were approved of, but they weren't taking things that were the standards.

SPEAKER_00: Exactly. That's right. And I think it did have to do a little bit with backdoor fear. But, also, I remember a comment one time, like, you know, TCP has never been proven to be able to be the backbone of a peer to peer network. And there was some, like like, I think BitTorrent, you know, maybe it use UDP or something and plus something proprietary on top or something. There was the belief that the existing protocols were insufficient, and it might be right. It also might be just like going back to the point, like, had a lot of money at this point. Like, they wanted to rebuild everything. So I think it's probably some mix of of those those things.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, for instance, the hashing algorithm that they chose to use in the early days was they were calling it SHA three. And but SHA three hadn't been finalized at that point in time, so they were sort of, like, taking the proposal. And and so I I I went and got the codes in the Haskell code base that did shot the the proposed shot three at that point in time. And then one day, I kind of, like, went into the, I think, like, the c plus plus client and looked around, and they started calling it Ketchik. And I was like, what? What what what's going on here? Why did they change the algorithm? But it was still connecting to what I had there. So I was a little bit confused, and I found out later what had happened was there had been a last minute change in SHA three, and the Ethereum team, felt that this was a government backdoor that was being put in there, and they refused to put that change in. And so they stuck with the original proposal, which was called Ketchik, which is something that I had already implemented there. But but they aren't technically SHA three anymore. So

SPEAKER_00: Gotcha.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Okay. I have a vague memory of that. Saying it was a government vector. I don't know one or the other, but that was their belief. Can

SPEAKER_00: you talk a little bit about okay. You're talking to Roman some at this time. Who's Roman? You know? What was going on? I also remember, like, the issue of sync, and I I wanna you to say it, but I'll prompt you if if need be.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, this well, I remember I remember sync speed was okay. So That's a yeah. Yeah. You know, there were there were kinda like two tiers of of software developers in the original sort of test net. There were, like, those who were around from the beginning that I was not in that group, you know, again, driving around country. But so and then and that included, I I guess, Python, which was VitalX, c plus plus, and and Geth were were first year. Was there another first year? I'm trying to remember.

SPEAKER_00: I think those were the three, like, foundation less sponsored ones. J

SPEAKER_02: in the original group, but then it got kind of

SPEAKER_01: Pulled out perhaps? Pulled out. Yeah. Because I Okay. I I think I may he Roman might have worked for the foundation for a And then yeah. Gotcha. I think he started a little bit serious to me because I first thought he was part of the foundation, but then I found out later he had been someone who came in a little bit later. And then maybe there was some I don't know. Again, maybe you know more than I do, Karen, but there was some, maybe, some arguing there or something, and so they weren't really communicating with him as much. Don't know if I got that right. But, but so, yeah, so that was the so Roman, was the Java client. What was Roman's last name?

SPEAKER_00: Mandelay Mandelayl. I don't know how to pronounce it. M a n d e l e I l. Some something like that. You know? You can look at It was Roman who did Java.

SPEAKER_02: Gavin was doing c plus plus, and Jeff was doing Go, I think. And then we talked about Python. But Roman and I were the later guys. So and I did the Haskell client. And and Roman

SPEAKER_01: may or may not have been in the Ethereum Foundation. I was not in the Ethereum Foundation, but I, you know, I met I met with those guys a number of times. And but the thing that everybody, I guess what you were alluding to, I'm not sure what precisely, the story is looking for, but but it was sync speed was the thing that everybody would commit compete against. And I remember, like, going to various meetups, and Roman would always kinda run up to me, and he's like, I how how long does it take you to, sync up to a million blocks in in the test net now? And so there was always, like, this competitiveness around around sync speed, which is is an important thing, but but, you know, there are other things too. So and so everybody was just rushing to to get sync speed faster and faster at that point in time.

SPEAKER_00: So I the thing I wanted to capture is, like, in in some ways, one that seemed like a little juvenile at the time, but it was also genius. Like, you got a lot of technical energy all focused around this one thing, Ethereum. Like, these people probably could have, like, tried to make their own Ethereum like blockchain or Bitcoin like blockchain or all that sort of thing. But, you know, it was sort of open source, made the best, get merged sort of, you know, attitude, and that it probably made for a better product at the end of the day. That was that was kind of the the main point that, like yeah. It was it it felt like, you know, nerdy kids playing with things. But, like, it kinda works. You know? Also remember, like, they, you know, they flooded the test nets with, like, giant blocks of data at some point. You know, there was a lot of I felt like the you know, people were treating it like this is like a spacecraft launch. Like, you had to, like, really stress test it because of, you know, gonna be the new world computer. And so in some ways, while the the development was far more incremental and than, like, a Bitcoin, there was still very stringent and perhaps unrealistic scenario testing that was going on before the launch.

SPEAKER_02: Well, and I I think that's one thing that's kind of interesting about it also is that it was very meritocratic. Right? And and and, like, there was all this competition going on, but even though, like, you know, Gavin was technically CTO and and, you know, Vitalik is obvious Vitalik, but, like, they didn't win. Like, the one that won was Jeff's Go client. The Go client. Right? Like and you could imagine in any other scenario, they could have just put their foot down and said, no. We're gonna go with Python or no. We're gonna go with C plus plus But they went with the one that actually performed the best and was doing the best.

SPEAKER_01: It it was a surprise to me. I was always treating C plus plus as the reference client. And Gavin was sort of more of a spokesman over there at the time. Jeff was sort of quieter. And at the last minute, I think there was some discussion about they needed to go through a security audit. And I might the story I heard, I don't know if it's true or not, is that they chose to do Geth first thinking that the, you know, c plus plus would be the last thing, and and they would put that out there. But, he kinda quietly went through that. And, I honestly like, I don't know. Maybe I'll I'll step on toes saying this. But, like, from using all of these clients, the Geth was the most stable at the time. I would always like, I would start it, and I would run. C plus plus was changing a lot, and so often I would start it and, oh, it's not working today. I think that plus the security audit pushed it over, and people use that one a lot. So

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Yeah. I I have a similar memory. And, of course, Gavin went on later to create parody, the Rust version, which I I think got pretty popular. I'm not quite sure where what it's where it stands today. So the talking about security, I wanna hone in on the theme of the shifting launch date. Jim, do you remember our Victor too? You know, we we had started to work on kind of a company related to all this, and we're getting worried because they kept adding more stuff, basically. Do you wanna can you kinda go into our you know, anything you remember from that time?

SPEAKER_01: It would've continued except for a bit of unlock that in a way was lucky, is what ended up happening is Bitcoin crashed at that time. And it really put the fire under everybody's feet that they had to get this thing out immediately because the their holdings weren't in Bitcoin. And so I think if that hadn't happened, there wouldn't have been the pressure to push it out right then and there, and they might have just kept adding and modifying indefinitely after that.

SPEAKER_00: So I believe the foundation was paying people sort of denominated in fiat currency, but with Bitcoin. So, you know, if it's x number of thousand euro or USD per month, they would the the Bitcoin amount would vary. And, yes, to that end, they everyone I remember in that room at Zoom, you know, there was discussion of, like, well, what if Bitcoin goes to 10,000? Because that would be really high at that time. Like, we shouldn't convert it. And they ended up being right. You know, I think the the prudent move would have been at least some diversification in the trash in the treasury. I believe they kept it all in Bitcoin and paid it out, I think, in Bitcoin. But, again, you know, the the amount would vary. And, of course, some bills just had to be in euro or whatever, the the Swiss francs, if that's a or USD. And so there was no avoiding the fact that runway was shrinking from, you know, having brought in the roughly 22,000,000 ramping up big dev teams, lot of redundancy. So I think three full dev teams for the clients, maybe a half a dev team for Python because it was kind of just Metallic working out how it all works. It was not gonna be as fast as the others because it was in Python. Then there was I think they started paying the JavaScript people later. There's development of the Mist browser. There's, you know, the the libraries and tooling started getting going. They were they were doing a lot. And, you know, almost all of it was technical. Not too much had, like, a business development, you know, focus. And, yeah, then the the price drops, and suddenly, what had gone I believe they had forecast a 2016 launch timeline, and it got moved up to maybe July 2015. So we're sitting there, you know, in in March. We're like, oh, you're telling us the thing is gonna launch in 2016. Like, should we be doing this? And then it moves up. And it was great that it moved up. Jim, do you recall how do you remember how you predicted roughly when it would launch?

SPEAKER_01: No. I'm not sure what you're referring to.

SPEAKER_00: I think you plotted a commit graph where, like it was, like, commits by day in the Ethereum repo. I remember best.

SPEAKER_01: Don't remember this, but okay. I don't doubt I did it. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And so, like, they the July date called a couple was after the deadline had been moved a couple times. So, basically, they're running out of money. They moved the the deadline the the launch date way up. Right?

SPEAKER_01: And and they move it to, Spain. But I remember thinking very heavily about how it had been changing very quickly, and then it slowed down, and I was happy. Yeah. And I I will say they that 2016

SPEAKER_02: date happened after a series of changing dates because we're like, hey. You know, we wanna launch this company, but we need you know, we were still connected to the, hopefully, the live net at the time. And so we were, like, trying to time our thing, and they were, like, changing dates all the time too. And so I think the 2016 date was, like, the sort of last one before they kind of changed their mind and re refocused.

SPEAKER_00: There were many eras which everyone has copied since. There's like this is the what were all the names? The serenity after it launched. There's, like, metropolis. Serenity. Serenity. Yeah. You know? They were, like, epochs where, like, there'd be testing of the software, and they they intended to stay in test net for quite a long time. That's the upshot. And I think they ended up, like, crediting some of the test net mined ether, like, one to 10 again or 10 to one against real ethereum to 10% of the value for the people who mined on the test net. So they made it kinda progressively more real, but it it really was fortuitous that there was a price crash because we we might never have seen it might have never seen the light of day. So many of the And I I I think you you didn't even elucidate,

SPEAKER_02: like, all of the projects. Like, there was a Raspberry Pi client that had I forgot about the Raspberry Pi client. There were, like, so many projects. Like, it was, like we were, what is going on here? You know?

SPEAKER_00: They built you know? Okay. So there were many different I I think I said, there was Serpent, which was the Python like language that compiled to EVM. There's Solidity, which won. So, you know, go sorry. C plus plus lost, but Solidity won. Yeah. And Solidity was kinda put together by Gavin. It's sort of a c JavaScript looking language.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: There was another one. L l l. L l. L l. It's like a list Yeah. Like

SPEAKER_02: It was like list like I did.

SPEAKER_00: To some extent, it it let the developers just be free to do things that developers always wanna do, like build peer to peer messaging systems, write compilers. You know? Yeah. It was like new DSL. Works. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. No. That was that was funny. Okay. Let's go to, because we can, get close to wrapping up here. And, you know, if, if there's interest, we could do another one of these, because there's lots after the launch. Let's go to kinda right before the launch. Okay. So as we're talking about the the launch run up, a bunch of interesting things happened. One, we had started to some extent working as part of consensus. Yeah. So we kind of joined the company, and it you know, they function sort of as an incubator, basically, us, and and plenty of other, firms, concepts, some of which stayed in house, some of which also, spun out.

SPEAKER_01: Brooklyn was awesome too. I I'd never been to, Williamsburg or Bushwick, and and it was sort of moving in various locations there. So I was I used to love coming and hanging out at the offices.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. It was ConsenSys got the the famous office on Bogart, but first was at an office by the water in Williamsburg.

SPEAKER_02: Was, like, something It was in Greenport. I remember getting completely lost at one point and finding it and, like

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Will Williamsburg is great. I remember I remember, like, sitting there one day, and all of a sudden, everybody came screaming in, and and they were filming an episode of girls outside. And so I ran outside and watched them film an episode of girls or part of an episode of girls, not the whole episode. No. Wow.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. That was so okay. So that's

SPEAKER_02: early. Was it at March, April? That was around yeah. I think it was April, May kind of thing. Well, we moved into the Bogart office just before the launch of Ethereum. In fact, we we one of the reasons we moved into that office a little bit earlier was so we'd have enough space to do a bigger hackathon.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Right. Okay. Yeah. I do remember that. So, you know, so we're frantically building the software. We're starting to work with people from within consensus. So we had some folks, you know, join the project, some of whom have gone on to, you know, big blockchain success. Should should we tell the the Tim story?

SPEAKER_02: Well, yeah. I mean, Tim, the founder of truffle, helped us kind of build our first blockchain explorer. You know? I mean, he was a brilliant developer back then and still remains a brilliant developer. Aaron, I think helped us kind of he who went on to build MetaMask. You know, we had lots of conversations with him about how to create our REST API and how it would work.

SPEAKER_00: I met up a couple times at my place in Berkeley with Aaron also, it was funny, like these folks would just come by and now they're like sort of different levels of a big deal. Exactly. I feel like you should tell the hard hitting version of the tips story just so, you know, a little bit because it was funny in retrospect. Right? Well, I I think the thing is that we were really focused on at the time,

SPEAKER_02: I think the first idea that we had with block apps was that we would create, like, a REST API, And we you know, I I come from sort of a lean startup background. Like, we really want to push deadlines. And at the time, people were more in an exploration mode. They were trying to do different things. And I was kind of ratcheting up the pressure to kind of present this at some I don't know if it was a conference or some meetup in a particular night. And, you know, as I kind of ratcheted up the pressure to do that, people were like, you know, I think I wanna kind of pursue my other interests instead of, like, working in this high pressure environment. And, you know, like a lot of early consensus was like that. Like, it was like different working styles and different methodologies. But in the end, it was kind of amazing, like, you know, the the people who did stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I would say lots of really smart people and a lot of flow between projects. It was amorphous at the beginning. Yeah. There was a lot of excitement, but it was also hard to, like, get someone who is your assigned to your team to, like, do the thing you expected.

SPEAKER_02: Well, it doesn't mean it's that there weren't team assignments. Right? Like, there weren't the teams I mean, we had they were suggested.

SPEAKER_00: You know? Exactly. Like

SPEAKER_02: and and but, you know, people were just flowing in and out, which is great for creativity, but was hard when you were trying to make a deadline. Because, you know, when you're trying to make a deadline, there's always sort of not great things you have to do. Right? Like, you gotta work really long hours and that kind of stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And let me see. What I felt so we kind of we looked and saw, you know, in our early approach, some success at API companies. Like, chain.com was at the time touting a big list of customers that use their API. They then pivoted to a couple other things, more enterprise outlook, and then they kinda a little bit pivoted back and then were, you know, eventually bought by sort of bought by Stellar, I believe. So there's some precedent for, like, okay. Let's let's have an API. Let's make this really easy for people to use, and this being, you know, the Ethereum network itself. And I think we found pretty

SPEAKER_02: strong resistance to this idea. Oh, yeah. Do we do you wanna talk more about, you know, this stuff? I I think while you guys were working on the client, what I was trying to do was build, you know, like, smart contract based applications. Right? And it was really like you you described some of the tooling, right, which was missed and, like, for front ends and, you know, the languages were constantly changing. Like, a lot of this seemed to be an afterthought, like, okay, we're gonna solve that later on them, the puzzle. But it was impossible to build an application, share it around, just get something running quickly, you know, and so we like, you know, my background was like web and mobile startups and like the first thing you look for is a REST API, and I thought like, okay, if we're ever gonna get this ecosystem were to really work, we need to have something like that so people can build these applications on. You know? We couldn't cobble together all these tools. But, yeah, we got a lot of resistance to it because, you know, people we were speaking Martian to people. Like, these are people, but they had no, like,

SPEAKER_01: interest in, like, anything that sounded a little bit corporate y. So

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. It wasn't even corporate y. It was more like like, you know, like There was a general

SPEAKER_00: suspicion of servers. I remember the phrase like, yeah. I don't know if I wanna work anything on anything that involves any servers. And I I remember at the time, you know, like, a peer to peer network, it's like every peer is both a client and a server. Like, you know, it's it's sort of kind of intrinsic.

SPEAKER_02: You know? Yeah. There was a lot of belief in the time that effectively everyone would run a node. And, like, you know, like, at some point, you'd run a node in your browser or run a node on your phone. And I'm like, look. I ran a mobile application company. Like, I know how big these clients are. Like, I don't want my Things gonna get very hot. Yeah. Exactly. Like, burning my ass, you know, sitting in my pocket trying to mine ether. Right? So but, yeah, it was just very strange, though, these kind of conversations.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And kind of concurrently, so more aligned with our perspective, consensus sort of grew an enterprise team, which focused sort of on advising big corporates on blockchain and then implementing it for them. And we kinda worked with them on go to market even before the launch of Ethereum more after. So we kinda hold on that discussion maybe for a subsequent episode. But okay. What about do you guys have any specific memories of the hackathons we did?

SPEAKER_02: So the first hackathon we did was in Greenpoint, and we basically it was sort of internal to consensus people, and I think it was mostly interns that kind of participated. We had a very crude version of our API working, and it was really, you know, like, I think over I think over a forty eight hour period, no one could build anything, basically. Like like, it was like but I think the premise that people were coming up with to use our API to build stuff, we could see some potential in it. So, like, people are doing, you know, interesting things like incentivizing location based scavenger hunts and other kind of things. And we found that interesting enough that you know, and I think this that was in May, June 2015 by that time. And then we figured out that there was, you know, a week the launch would probably happen in August of that year. And we're like, okay, let's take of all the input we got from that hackathon and do it like a real hackathon. Like, get, you know, a bunch of participants, get a bunch of people involved, and, you know, try and get all the people from consensus but people outside consensus involved. And we were kind of, like, targeting that day. So we were, like, furiously trying to make our product more stable and work and take all the input we got from that first one into the second one. When we didn't know exact I think the plan was to do it on the day of the launch of Ethereum, and but we didn't know the exact date yet. So we're just furiously You said right before or right after? I can't remember. I I think it was right after. Yeah. I think it was, like, two days after or something like that. But, you know, it was it was in the same timing of the launch, basically. So I re you know, as far as I'm aware, that was, like, the first Ethereum hackathon.

SPEAKER_01: I remember maybe it was the second or third one we met the Crane brothers.

SPEAKER_02: Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's right. Mhmm. They Yeah. I

SPEAKER_00: think that was the one right after the launch. That was, yeah, that was later.

SPEAKER_02: That was didn't they? They didn't want the one at the launch. They want so that hackathon where we met them was actually the first consensus conference hackathon. I don't think that's true. I think that one was later. I think they Oh, no. You don't like Yeah. You're right. You're right. I think they came to the first you you're right. I think they came to that very first hackathon. Yeah. So I I think

SPEAKER_00: or at least John did. Well, maybe both. Yeah. Yeah. They came to the second one the first one right after the launch. Right? The yeah. This is funny. This is another foreshadowing for a future episode. But, yes, the IBM, you know, they've been circling this this whole time, and they do appear in the next episode if it comes at the consensus hackathon.

SPEAKER_02: Like, I remember us furiously and and just the uncertainty of the launch. I was like I remember we had many, many conversations. Like, is this thing ever gonna launch? Like, we weren't sure if it would happen.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Do you remember okay. Let's talk quickly about the mining that we did, and this was all for the company. You know? But do you do you recall what we we did at that time?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I totally remember. So I remember well, at some point up to the launch, we realized, okay. If we were gonna help if we were gonna help businesses or other groups build applications on the Ethereum, we would need ether to be able to pay for gas for those transactions. And so we're like, well, where are we gonna get this from? And, you know, I think the first thing that happened was you guys were like, oh, we need to build a mining rig. Right? I'll hand that over to you, Jen. I think that was

SPEAKER_01: Karen and I drove up to Fry's and picked up a bunch of components.

SPEAKER_00: We did. I and, you know, we we're kinda ready for it because we I believe we had you had helped me build just, like, a workstation

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. I think that's right. Or two before.

SPEAKER_00: Basically, like, the compile times on my laptop were double or quadruple what they were on the workstation. So it's made a big productivity difference. Yeah. We went back, and, yeah, I I think so I moved closer to campus at that time. We took a couple different shots at mining, but what did you know, I I think mine exploded. The power supply blew up. The graphics card was actually okay. I something happened to yours. I can't remember.

SPEAKER_01: Well, we gotta go on eventually. But the part that was funny, I remember, is that we spent, like, two or three days building these machines, getting it up, putting the software on, getting it running, hitting some problems. And, it started like, ether started to dribble in at that point in time. So we're like, oh, this is awesome. And then we called up Victor, and he's like, yeah. In the last half hour, I just, like, spun up a few machines at Amazon, and I'm getting as much ether as you guys are. Well, it was more than a few machines. So, like, I remember watching you guys build this and, like, thinking, like, oh, like, this is gonna launch any day now. Right? Like so, like, I I said, like, can someone give me an image

SPEAKER_02: of the Go client? So and I took that image, and I just, like, put it on Amazon and a bunch of Spot instances. And at some point, I was, like, running, like, and I just bought as many spot instances as were available. Like, what whatever met my price I bought, and this was before, you know, mining was even known that this was something that happened. So I could still get it pretty cheap, and the blockchain itself was small enough that you could sync up pretty fast even if you were starting None of this is stuff you could do today. In fact, none of this is Exactly. Well, and and it stopped being effective. Like, I mean, there like, I remember at the point of the launch, I you guys were saying, yeah. We got our first ether. And I was like, do you see this graph? Like, you know, this is the total mining power of the Ethereum network. That large wedge, which was, like, 25% is me on Spotlight. No.

SPEAKER_00: God. We should've we should've cranked it up just, another couple weeks longer. I don't.

SPEAKER_02: Well, I think by the time, you know, three days have passed, I'd I'd passed, like, several thousand dollars. Like, our AWS bill was, like Yeah. It seems super expensive at the time. Super expensive at the time. And, like, I was like, oh, wow. Like, this is good. But, yeah, we should I should have ran it, like, you know, a month, basically. And then it was it was pretty amazing. Because, like Yes. I I yeah. I'm not a DevOps guy, but I was, like, running hundreds of machines at a time, and it was just amazing.

SPEAKER_00: One thing I I struggled to remember, how did they communicate that the network was ready to launch? Is it, like, Twitter, email? Like, how did we even know? Like, we knew we kinda knew I think it was, like, we knew from the commits that it was close. This is why I brought it up before. They're like, okay. They're slowing down. They're getting ready. You know? But

SPEAKER_01: I don't remember how they communicated it, but we were pretty into, involved in consensus at those days, and everybody was talking about it. Yeah. And there were, like, multiple groups there that were getting ready to spin up lots of mining. And so there was no there was no missing it at the time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Yeah. This is

SPEAKER_02: sorry. Go ahead. Sorry. Like like I said, I think there was but, like, I think they announced the date, but there was still a lot of uncertainty whether they would meet that date or not. Right? And it turned out they did. Like, that did turn out to be the date. But, like, everyone was kind of gearing up, but we were also, like, getting ready. Like, oh, you know, it might not happen that day. It might be a couple days later. It could be a couple months later. We just weren't sure.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Oh, man. Those those are some times for sure. Yeah. Okay. So I think this is a good wrapping point for this first episode. Hopefully, we'll see if we get any feedback from the Internet at large on whether we should keep going down this path. But, you know, quite the journey already. Lots of interesting things I've even remembered, you know, in the course of our couple hours here. Thanks, guys. Does feel like we should keep going with the story, but we'll see. You know, let's leave it as a cliffhanger, all of the excitement to come. Any final words?

SPEAKER_02: Well, I I I think, you know, it it's funny. Even if you look at the beginning, you see the same patterns now where there's this, like, huge amount of inflow and then, you know, up what seemed at the time, like, tons of hype, but now is, like, a trickle of hype. And and what seems like tons of capital, but now would be considered a trickle of capital. And then, like, a kind of overconfidence and then, you know, a tightening, but then, you know, real technical stuff gets done in the tightening. It's funny how that pattern has played out so many times now. Yeah. Exactly.

SPEAKER_01: It's a funny type of cyclical. Tell you about the time we saw Vitalik threw his shirt at someone.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, that's a good story. Yes. That is a really good story. The Vitalik shirt story is a good one. Alrighty. Let's let's end it here. Thanks, guys. You know, we're doing this recording on a Sunday. Hope it entertains and informs the wider world, and we'll see you next time.