SPEAKER_00: Alrighty, so we're on. Thanks. So my name is Kieran James Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James from OzDR and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called Blockapps which has been in operation for quite some time. But that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened and so we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for, for posterity and here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion. But we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, Kieran produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. Alrighty, so let's, let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad of bitcoin. And I distinctly remember it being $3 down from a recent peak of 14 or $15. I thought it was interesting and looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. If you asked me then I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a paypl type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

SPEAKER_01: Aware is different than like interested. In fact, like, I don't know, I was like, I came from an academic background so I'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it. But, but I was like a little bit too above all that, like, oh, that's like a money thing. I'm not interested in that money world. So really, no. Like, the interest came from when you reached out to Steve, who is a. An old friend of mine, and that Kieran had been following his blog. And Steve called me up and he's like, this guy Kieran just called me up and you have to go look at this Ethereum thing. And so at first I was like, yeah, you know, I'm not interested in all this, this fake money thing. And I went and I read the white paper, and by the end of the white paper, I was, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like, like banking or something. This is about incentivization on the Internet. And that drew me in. So. And at that point I. And there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I, I started, like, trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how that. And at the time it was a test net and. And that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. So, I don't know. Let me pass it on to Victor.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I think I became aware of it around the same time as you. I was, I was, you know, doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time, and I. I felt really disconnected from North America. So I became sort of an early fan of podcasts. And one of the big podcast networks was this thing called Twit that was like all technical podcasts. And one of the podcasts I really love was this podcast Security now, which went really deep into these kind of like, security, technical kind of things and did like a couple episodes of bitcoin and I was like, you know, really, really fascinated by it, but mostly from a technical angle, like, and even to the point where I downloaded the bitcoin client and ran it. Didn't get any bitcoin, where if I did, I didn't notice it. I wish. I think the Rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups there'd be like groups of computers in like part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? They're like, oh, we're mining bitcoin. And I was like, oh, like, why are you mining bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, you know, we can like transfer money and like, it's basically free Internet magic money. And I was like, I honestly was kind of repelled by that. Like, that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time.

SPEAKER_01: Did we all hate it before we liked it?

SPEAKER_00: I never hated it. I was sort of just like not that interested, I guess. I know. I think, you know, from the east coast, the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like, yeah, you know, after your physics days.

SPEAKER_01: You're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like, like, I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it.

SPEAKER_00: I see.

SPEAKER_02: I hate it. But I think I found the like, like everyone talked about. So I was fascinated. The technical aspect, like I said, like, you know, and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software. But I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like, who were setting up bitcoin mining rigs, they're like, they were like kind of fanatical. Like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off. I would say.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it's sort of. It was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against, not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like the most horsepower wins from a, you know, intellectual perspective and I guess the hardest working horsepower. Very few of those people got interested in, in, you know, crypto blockchain. A few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones as far as, you know, compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Benet, etc. But yeah, I think. I don't know that it was. That I was too good for it. But that one I didn't grasp right away. That it was revolutionary and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, sort of.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. I would describe my view of it in the early days was sketchy because most of the use cases that, like, I thought the technology was fascinating. But whenever I would ask about, you know, I'm a product guy, so I would always ask, like, what's the use case? Why would you use it? And people would describe, you know, things to circumvent existing laws. Like the big one in China that I remember is like, oh, I can transfer money and bypass, you know, foreign exchange rules and stuff. And I was like, is that legal? And like, no one would, you know, mention anything afterwards, basically.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Well, I want to say good.

SPEAKER_01: I got over feeling too good for it, I'll tell you that.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, we all did. I want to touch on the other. The big thing that sticks out of my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple times was Mount Gox. So Mount Gox was that first big price run up, I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks, 1200 bucks in a pretty short time frame. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person to some extent. Consumer interest tracks with the price and people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know, and, you know, whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side, sort of. Crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound, but I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mount Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not quite crypto savvy in the industry, etc., were suddenly paying attention when Mount Gox was happening.

SPEAKER_01: I was just getting into things. I, I, what year was it? Was it 2014? 2015? 2014, probably. Right.

SPEAKER_00: I think docs was 13. Let me check.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, okay.

SPEAKER_01: 13.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Okay. So that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. I was new enough to it that it was still, I was observing it as a, you know, like a third party, you know, it was, it was interesting to me. But, but yeah, I think I, I spent a little time to understand what, because you know, the newspaper coverage, like usual, was terrible about it. They didn't explain what was going on. So I spent a little time to understand that, yes, there was a problem, but no, it had nothing to do with Blockchain. It was. It was. Oh, there's.

SPEAKER_00: I think you're right. So the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14, it looks like. Okay. So it officially shuttered February 2014 though. And the big. The 1200 that I remember was like November 2013, it looks like.

SPEAKER_02: When did the hack happen?

SPEAKER_00: December. Oh, I think right here.

SPEAKER_02: Okay. Okay. Yeah, right there. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So, yeah, interesting times for sure, because.

SPEAKER_02: I think Monk Gox and. Oh, what was. I'm blanking right now. What. What was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used Silk Road? Silk Road, Yeah. Like, I think it's. Those were kind of intertwined in those early days. Right. So I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about. And I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there. Like, you know, lots of illicit stuff was listed there.

SPEAKER_00: You know, that's.

SPEAKER_02: Wow.

SPEAKER_00: I think I never did that. I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road. Just heard about it at like, I had to make Mt. Gox account and some others. There was a period where like, Dwala was doing crypto stuff and then I think they stopped and I believe they're still around as like a payment API company. But yeah, because I definitely use them and some others.

SPEAKER_02: I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mount GOG hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other. And that was like the sort of like, oh, you know, all crypto and blockchain is dead now and then it just keeps coming back. Right?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, it sure does. Okay.

SPEAKER_01: There's a little bit of bias in the new. The news on how they cover problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional world. Like if. If there's. If there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, that means that, like, it might mean that there we need a little more regulation or something, but that that was a bad person. So it's always like much more tied into. You know, the price of. Of bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens. But you don't see like, the crashing because, like, somebody commits Fraud somewhere. I mean, I guess if the fraud's big enough. But.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I agreed. Just segue. Yeah, segueing quickly. Can you guys go into how you met? Because you guys met first. And then we can do the whole. How we all.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, Jim, do. Do I. Do I want to start or do you want to start?

SPEAKER_01: I'll start.

SPEAKER_00: And.

SPEAKER_01: And I'll pass it over. I, actually, so I had. Back in the 90s, I was in academia and in the odds. I was in the startup world and I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups and I had two sons who were in the. Our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And I. At this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs and we said, hey, let's do something crazy right now and let's. Let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China and actually put them in a school there. So I called around some various friends, and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victors in Beijing. And he says, I'm going to get you in touch with these guys. So in fact, let me pass it over to you right now and you can explain.

SPEAKER_02: Well, yeah, and so the vc, you know, who we're still friends with her g. Like, he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said, like, oh, I have this brilliant cto and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So, you know, don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started talking that summer and you weren't like, traveling the country, so you were like in a different place every time.

SPEAKER_01: Another advantage of us both being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving.

SPEAKER_02: Around the country and. And I remember, like, you know, like we were kind of talking over the summer and I was like, you know, seeing how serious you were about coming and. And at one point you said, okay, look, if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come and take the job to Beijing. And I went to the school that my kids went to, which. And said, like, you know, can you make space for, you know, two foreign kids, this international program? They said, yes, if you can, but the kids have to be here the first day of school. And first day of school was two weeks from that conversation. So I called Jim up and said, look, I can do it. You know, I can guarantee a place for them but you have to be here on this day. And to my shock, he actually said yes. And he, like, parked up his house.

SPEAKER_01: And like, everything in the house in, like, I think we had 12 days to be in school and we probably were. Had to have the house packed within, like. Like, I don't know, less than a week. So that was a crazy week. But. But Victor was a great help in, like, we were going to a country we'd never been to before, didn't know much about. Victor had also moved to Asia a few years earlier, and so he knew. He knew where the good schools were, he knew where the good apartment buildings were, helped us out tremendously. So, yeah, it was a great experience.

SPEAKER_02: It was an exciting time to be in China. Was right around the first Olympics, you know, like, it was right around that, the Beijing Olympics. And so it was a really exciting time. But yeah, you wound up saying for about 18 months. Right. In total and a little less.

SPEAKER_01: But yeah, it was. It was over a year.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. And then we just kept in touch from there. Like, we loved working together.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, it was great year. Did you arrive? What was this? Rough times, your period? Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Who are you asking? Because it was different.

SPEAKER_00: You, Jim.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, 2011, Summer, we're driving all over the country. 2011, September, August, I can't remember. We were. We were in Beijing.

SPEAKER_00: Gotcha. Gotcha. Very cool. And so then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013, something like that.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, we were back at. When did we come back? I guess we were back in the country in 2013.

SPEAKER_00: Gotcha.

SPEAKER_01: But like, January.

SPEAKER_00: Let me actually, I'll segue. I'm trying to keep it slightly chronological to keep, you know, everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum, kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but basically.

SPEAKER_02: The.

SPEAKER_00: I had passed my qualifying exam. I'm going to say spring 2014 or, you know, maybe May, April or May 2014. So for those who have not. Not aware of how PhD program works, qualifying exam is like one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis. So sometimes it's a coursework requirement. Sometimes you need to, you know, translate a work from, like an academic work from one language to. To another to show proficiency. I think most of them have dropped those requirements at this point. And so, you know, it's a whole bunch of study tense prep at Berkeley. It's a three hour oral exam with a couple people from your department and one from an external department. And then they give you a pass or not. I got a pass, thankfully. It was a. I don't know that it was.

SPEAKER_02: It was.

SPEAKER_00: Everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam except the people who are really good. Right? Like, and, you know, so while I passed it, I gives like, you know, didn't feel great at least the rest of that day.

SPEAKER_02: When did you find out the result? Like, immediately. Oh, you do? Okay.

SPEAKER_00: You put you in the hall and they tell you, yeah, okay, that's good. So you're just like very nervous.

SPEAKER_01: I don't know what it was like for you, but for me it was just like three guys I knew and I was nervous too, but it wasn't like they had to go and like, you know, like calculate numbers or something. They just kind of come out and they're like, yeah, yeah, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: No, it was like that. Right? Yeah, it's, it's a oral. It's subjective in a sense, but, you know, there you've got like several of the world's foremost experts, you know, in some subjects, so they're able to assess whether you understand it enough or not to proceed with research. So anyway, so kind of a. The qualifying exam led to, you know, I needed like a short break from math. I was in mathematical physics and I had almost taken a job working for sort of a data science company that was taking, I can't quite remember, so something having to do with like Nielsen TV ratings and doing something with the data and maybe selling it back to networks. I can't, can't remember at this time, but, you know, it seemed like an okay thing. And I also wanted to go back to New York for the summer. I'm from New York and, you know, as with many New Yorkers, it took some time to adapt to the California culture and I didn't fully do it. I still, you know, I'm prone sometimes to bash the Bay Area, but I still kind of like it there. But anyway, by the way, yes, yes, Jim's there. I'm in the state of New York at the moment.

SPEAKER_02: But.

SPEAKER_00: But yeah, but I, you know, I need a little break basically. And it ended up being possible to work on the Ethereum project. So somehow my, you know, I guess I'll go into this somehow. My dad, Joe Lubin, got attached to the project basically because he was always. He was tracking Bitcoin and blockchain for a long time. He had a CS background, plus the financial background. And ran a hedge fund for a number of years. And so it's just kind of always watching technological innovations in financial services. And I guess always had a little bit of the blockchain philosophical character in that, let's say, pro freedom, little bit of a libertarian streak kind of thing. And I believe he happened to just be visiting our families. He's from Toronto. A lot of, A lot of blockchain people in Toronto for one reason or another. And he went, I believe, to. It might have been a bitcoin meetup at that time or it might have been the first Ethereum meetup. But this would have been January, February 2014, I believe. And Vitalik was speaking there. And you know, like everyone around that time where you see Vitalik speak about something, you got really excited, right? And so he actually got ready to start helping out the project right away. He actually thought for a time that he might be a software developer for the project. And you know, it didn't turn out that way. We can go into it a little bit later. But he started working on it again, let's say February, March 2014. And so he just sent me the white paper, like right after or maybe right before my qualifying exam, I got a chance to read it and it was pretty cool and interesting and new and that was sort of the first time I grasped the potential of the technology and it caused me to go back and read the bitcoin white paper, et cetera. And it was sort of exciting enough to work on for that summer basically. So that's how I got into it. And subsequently Jim alluded to this earlier. I started to work with the project and reached out to Steve Hsu, great, great friend of ours, kind of, I don't know, not quite famously brilliant, definitely brilliant, somewhat famous, super cool guy and had been a long time reader of Steve's blog. He's one of the few really excellent kind of general communicators who's a super technical guy, but most people who are really technical in communication have a hard time, I don't know, distilling it for at least kind of a mass market audience. But Steve is actually good at that, but with nuanced coverage of technical topics. So anyway, caught up with Steve and that takes us to Steve forwarding on the Ethereum white paper to Jim. And I believe I was the first time I spoke to Steve I was in New York, but was just about to go back to the Bay Area. So that takes us to maybe January, sorry, June, July 2014, and maybe I came back in August or something like that. And it turned out that, you know, Jim was there in, in Hayward and we got to meet up. What do you think? August 2014, September, something like that?

SPEAKER_01: Oh, it was around then because also ironically, I was driving across the country that summer too, and it was right after I came back.

SPEAKER_02: That's all Your big life changes are related to some cross country trip ob.

SPEAKER_00: Soul searching. You do a literal search around the country.

SPEAKER_01: Well, see, I was in Montana and then I was back in the Bay Area and then we talked.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, okay, that's cool. How was Montana, by the way?

SPEAKER_01: Wow.

SPEAKER_00: Maybe we shouldn't go. Yeah, Montana. Oddly crypto friendly.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, yeah, makes sense. Big sky country, right? Big sky country.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, so let me see here. I want to. I have a couple other 2014 anecdotes that you guys may not even know that much about, but maybe we should jump ahead to 2015 and go back.

SPEAKER_02: Just before we go past 2014. So I moved back from China in 2014. And so, you know, me and Jim were talking about like, oh, now that we were, I was back, what kind of project could we do together? So while you had started that conversation, me and Jim were like thinking about, okay, you know, like, maybe we could work on a startup together. And at some point you forwarded me the paper as well. So like, I think once. So that's, that's kind of how I got into it as well.

SPEAKER_00: I want to give. Yeah, I don't want to speak the whole time, but. But I have a couple other 2014 anecdotes that you guys may not even know that much about, but maybe we should jump ahead to 2015 and go back.

SPEAKER_02: So in 2014, we were working on the client. I was doing the Haskell client. And Jim did C plus plus and Jeff did Go. And there was some tension at that time because Roman, who was doing Java, wasn't really communicating with us as much. But he ended up going into the Ethereum Foundation. So it's a little bit of a complex story.

SPEAKER_00: Can you talk a little bit about. Okay, you're talking to Roman some at this time. Who's Roman? You know, what was going on. I also remember like the issue of sync and I, I want to you to say it but I'll prompt you if, if need be.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, this. Well, I remember, I remember sync speed.

SPEAKER_00: Was okay, so that's, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: You know there were kind of like two tiers of, of software developers in the original sort of test. Net. There were like those who were around from the beginning that I was not in that group, you know again driving around country but so, and then, and that included I guess Python which was Vitalix. C and Geth were first year. Was there another first year? I'm trying to remember.

SPEAKER_00: I think those were the three foundation.

SPEAKER_02: Blessed sponsored ones was in the original group, but then it got kind of pulled out, perhaps. Pulled out, yeah, because.

SPEAKER_00: Roman might have worked for the foundation for a bit. Yeah, gotcha.

SPEAKER_01: I think he started a little mysterious to me because I first thought he was part of the foundation, but then I found out later he had been someone who came in a little bit later. And then maybe there was some. I don't know, again, maybe you know more than I do, Karen, but there was some, maybe some arguing there or something and so they weren't really communicating with him as much. Don't know if I got that right. But. But so, yeah, so that was. So Roman was the Java client. What was Roman's last name?

SPEAKER_00: Mandalay. Mandalayo. I don't know how to pronounce it. M A, N, D, E L E I, L, something. Something like that.

SPEAKER_01: You know, we can look at it.

SPEAKER_02: So it was Roman who did Java. Gavin was doing C plus plus and Jeff was doing Go, I think, and then italic Python.

SPEAKER_01: But Roman and I were the later guys, so. And I did the Haskell client and, and Roman may or may not have been in the Ethereum Foundation. I was not in the Ethereum Ethereum foundation, but I, you know, I met, I met with those guys a number of times and. But the thing that everybody, I guess what you were alluding to, I'm not sure what precisely the story is looking for, but. But it was sync speed was the thing that everybody would commit, compete against. And I remember like going to various meetups and Roman would always kind of run up to me and he's like, how, how long does it take you to sync up to a million blocks? And in the test net now. And so there was always like this competitiveness around, around sync speed, which is, is an important thing, but, but you know, there are other things too, so.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, the thing I wanted to capture is like in, in some ways one that seemed like a little juvenile at the time, but it was also genius. Like, it got a lot of technical energy all focused around this one thing. Ethereum. Like these people probably could have like tried to make their own Ethereum, like Blockchain or Bitcoin, like blockchain or all that sort of thing. But you know, it was sort of open source, made the best get merged sort of, you know, attitude and that it probably made for a better product at the end of the day. That was, it was kind of the main Point that, like, yeah, it was. It felt like nerdy kids playing with things, but it kind of worked. I also remember they flooded the test nets with giant blocks of data. At some point there was a lot of. I felt like people were treating it like this was a spacecraft launch. You had to really stress test it because it's going to be the new world computer. And so in some ways, while the development was far more incremental than like a bitcoin, there was still very stringent and perhaps unrealistic scenario testing that was going on before the launch.

SPEAKER_02: I think one thing that's kind of interesting about it also is that it was really mirrored to Cradock, right. And, and, and like, there was all this competition going on, but even though, like, you know, Gavin was technically CTO and, and, you know, Vitalik, but, like, they didn't win. Like, the one that won was Jeff's Go client.

SPEAKER_00: Like, yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And you could imagine in any other scenario they could have just put their foot down and said, no, we're going to go with Python, or no, we're going to go with C. But they went with the one that actually performed the best and was doing the best.

SPEAKER_01: It was a surprise to me. I was always treating C as the reference client and Gavin was sort of more of a spokesman over there at the time. Jeff was sort of quieter and at the last minute, I think there was some discussion about they needed to go through a security audit. And the story I heard, I don't know if it's true or not, is that they chose to do GU first, thinking that the, you know, C would be the last thing and, and they would put that out there, but he kind of quietly went through that and I honestly, like, I don't know, maybe I'll. I'll step on toes saying this, but, like, from using all of these clients, the GU was the most stable at the time. I would always, like, I would start it and it would run. C was changing a lot and so often I would start it and, oh, it's not working today. I think that, plus the security audit pushed it over and people used that one a lot.

SPEAKER_00: So, yeah, yeah, I have a similar memory. And of course, Gavin went on later to create Parody, the Rust version, which I think got pretty popular. I'm not quite sure where it stands today. So the talking about security, I want to hone in on the theme of the shifting launch date. Jim, do you remember our Victor 2? You know, we, we had started to work on kind of a company related to all this. And we're getting worried because they kept adding more stuff, basically. Do you want to. Can you kind of go into our, you know, anything you remember from continued.

SPEAKER_01: It would have continued except for a bit of unluck. That, in a way was lucky, is what ended up happening is bitcoin crashed at that time and it really put the fire under everybody's feet that they had to get this thing out immediately because their holdings were in bitcoin. And so I think if that hadn't happened, there wouldn't have been the pressure to push it out right then and there. And they might have just kept adding and modifying indefinitely after that.

SPEAKER_00: So I believe the foundation was paying people sort of denominated in fiat currency, but with Bitcoin, so, you know, if it's X number of ousand, Euro or USD per month, the bitcoin amount would vary. And yes, to that end, they. Everyone I remember in that room in Zug, there was discussion of like, well, what if bitcoin goes to 10,000? Because that would be really high at that time. Like, we shouldn't convert it. And they ended up being right. I think the prudent move would have been at least some diversification in the Treasury. I believe they kept it all in bitcoin and paid it out, I think, in Bitcoin. But again, the amount would vary. And of course, some bills just had to be in euro or whatever, Swiss francs, if that's it, or USD. And so there was no avoiding the fact that Runway was shrinking from having brought in the roughly 22 million. Ramping up, big dev teams, a lot of redundancy. So I think three full dev teams for the clients, maybe half a dev team for Python, because it was kind of just Vitalik working out how it all works. It was not going to be as fast as the others because it was in Python. Then there was, I think they started paying the JavaScript people later, there's development of the Mist browser. There's, you know, the libraries and tooling started getting going. They were. They were doing a lot and almost all of it was technical, not too much, had a business development focus. And then the price drops and suddenly what had gone. I believe they had forecast a 2016 launch timeline and it got moved up to maybe July 2015. So we're sitting there in March, we're like, oh, you're telling us the thing is going to launch in 2016. Like, should we be doing this? And then it moves up. And it was great that it moved up. Jim, you recall how do you remember how you predicted roughly when it would launch?

SPEAKER_01: No, I'm not sure what you're referring to.

SPEAKER_00: I think you plotted a commit graph where like it was like commits by day in the Ethereum repo.

SPEAKER_02: Yes, I remember this.

SPEAKER_01: I don't remember this, but okay, I don't doubt I did it.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And so like they, the July date called a couple was after the deadline had been moved a couple times. So basically they're running out of money. They move the, the deadline, the launch date way up. Right. And, and they move it.

SPEAKER_01: But I remember thinking very heavily about how it had been changing very quickly and then it slowed down and I was happy.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. And I, I will say they, that 2016 day happened after a series of changing dates because we were like, hey, you know, we want to launch this company but we need, you know, we were still connected to the, hopefully the live that at the time. And so we were like trying to time our thing and they were like changing dates all the time too. And so I think the 2016 date was like the sort of the last one before they kind of changed their mind and re refocused.

SPEAKER_00: There were many eras which everyone has copied since. There's like, this is the, what were all the names? Serenity. After it launched. There's like Metropolis.

SPEAKER_02: Serenity.

SPEAKER_00: Serenity. You know, they were like epochs where like there would be testing of the software and they intended to stay in testnet for quite a long time. That's the upshot. And I think they ended up like crediting some of the testnet mind ether like 1 to 10 again or 10 to 1 against real ether. So 10% of the value for the people who mined on the test. Net. So they made it kind of progressively more real. But really was fortuitous that there was that price crash because we might never have seen it. Might have never seen the light of day. So many of these.

SPEAKER_02: And I, I, I think you, you didn't even elucidate like all of the projects. Like there was a Raspberry PI cl.

SPEAKER_00: I forgot about the Raspberry PI.

SPEAKER_02: There were like so many projects. Like it was like we were like what is going on here? You know, like they built, you know.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, so there were many different, I think I said there was Serpent, which was the Python like language that compiled evm. There's Solidity which won. So you know, go. Sorry, C lost but Solidity won. And Solidity was kind of put together by Gavin. It's sort of a C Java script looking language. Yeah, there was Another one LL was like a lisp, like language to some extent. It let the developers just be free to do things that developers always want to do, like build peer to peer messaging systems, write compilers, you know, it was like.

SPEAKER_02: Exactly.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, let's go to. Because we can get close to wrapping up here and you know, if, if there's interest, we could do another one of these because there's lots after the launch. Let's go to kind of right before the launch. Okay. So as we're talking about the launch run up, a bunch of interesting things happened. One, we had started to some extent working as part of consensus. So we kind of joined the company and they functioned sort of as an incubator basically for us and plenty of other firms concepts, some of which stayed in house, some of which also spun out.

SPEAKER_01: Brooklyn was awesome too. I, I'd never been to Williamsburg, Bushwick, and, and it was sort of moving in various locations there. So I was, I used to love coming and hanging out at the offices.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, it was consensus. Got the, the famous office on Bogart. But first was at an office by the water in Williamsburg.

SPEAKER_02: It was in Greenport. I remember getting completely lost at one point and finding it and like, yeah, Williamsburg is great.

SPEAKER_01: I remember, I remember like sitting there one day and all of a sudden everybody came screaming in and, and they were filming an episode of Girls outside and so I ran outside and watched them film an episode of Girls or part of an episode of Girls. Not the whole episode, no.

SPEAKER_00: Wow. Yeah, that was so. Okay, so that's early. What was it? March? April?

SPEAKER_02: That was around. Yeah, I think it was April May kind of thing. Well, we moved into the Bogart office just before the launch of Ethereum. In fact, one of the reasons we moved into that office a little bit earlier was so we'd have enough space to do a bigger hackathon.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right. Okay. Yeah, I do remember that. So, you know, so we're frantically building the software. We're starting to work with people from within consensus. So we had some folks, you know, join the project, some of whom have gone on to, you know, big blockchain success. Should we tell the, the Tim story?

SPEAKER_02: Well, yeah, I mean, Tim, the founder of Truffle, helped us kind of build our first blockchain explorer. You know, I mean, he was a brilliant developer back then and still remains bread to be developer. Aaron, I think, helped us kind of he who went on to build Metamask. You know, we had lots of conversations with him about how to create our REST API and how it would work.

SPEAKER_00: I met up a couple times at my place in Berkeley with Aaron also. It was funny, like these folks would just come by and now they're like sort of different levels of a big deal.

SPEAKER_02: Exactly.

SPEAKER_00: I feel like you should tell the hard hitting version of the tip story just, you know, a little bit because it was fun money in retrospect. Right.

SPEAKER_02: Well, I, I think the thing is that we were really focused on at the time. I think the first idea that we had with block apps was that we would create like a REST API and we, you know, I, I come from sort of a lean startup background. Like we really want to push deadlines and at the time people were more in an exploration or they were trying to do different things. And I was kind of ratcheting up the pressure to kind of present this at some, I don't know if it was a conference or some meetup in a particular night. And you know, as I ratcheted up the pressure to do that, people were like, you know, I think I want to kind of pursue my other interest instead of like working in this high pressure environment. And you know, like, and a lot of early consensus was like that. Like it was like different working styles and different methodologies. But in the end it was kind of amazing. Like you know, the people who did stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I would say lots of really smart people and a lot of flow between projects. It was amorphous at the beginning. There was a lot of excitement. But it was also hard to like get someone who is your assigned to your team to like do the thing you expected.

SPEAKER_02: Well, there weren't team assignments. Right. Like there weren't the teams. I mean we had, we had, they.

SPEAKER_00: Were suggested, you know, exactly like and.

SPEAKER_02: But you know, people were just flowing in and out, which is great for creativity, but was hard when you were trying to make a deadline deadline because you know, when you're trying to make a deadline there's always sort of not great things to have to do. Right. Like you got work, really long hours and that kind of stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And let me see what I felt. So we kind of, we looked and saw, you know, in our early approach some success at API companies like chain.com was at the time touting a big list of customers that use their API. They then pivoted to a couple other things, more enterprise outlook and then were eventually bought by, sort of bought by Stellar, I believe. So there's some precedent for like okay, let's have an API. Let's make this really easy for people to use. And this being the Ethereum network itself. And I think we found pretty strong resistance to this idea. Oh yeah, do you want to talk more about.

SPEAKER_02: So I think while you guys were working on the client, what I was trying to do was build you know, like smart contract based applications. Right. And it was really like you described some of the tooling, right. Which was missed and like for front ends and you know, the languages were constantly changing. Like a lot of this seemed to be an afterthought. Like, okay, we're going to solve that later on the puzzle. But it was impossible to build an application, share it around, just get something running quickly, you know, and so we like, you know, my background was like web and mobile startups and like the first thing you look for is a REST API. And I thought like, okay, if, if we're ever going to get this ecosystem to really work, we need to have something like that so people can build these applications on, you know, we couldn't cobble together all these tools. But yeah, we got a lot of resistance to it because, you know, it.

SPEAKER_01: Was like we were speaking Martian to people. Like, these are people. But they had no like interest in like anything that sounded a little bit corporate.

SPEAKER_02: So it wasn't even corporate. It was more like, like, you know.

SPEAKER_00: Like there was a general suspicion of servers. I remember the phrase like, yeah, I don't know if I want to work anything on anything that involves any servers. I remember at the time, you know, like a peer to peer network. It's like every peer is both a client and a server. Like, you know, it's sort of, kind of intrinsic, you know.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, there was a lot of belief in the time that effectively everyone would run a node and like, you know, like at some point you'd run a node in your browser or run a node on your phone and I'm like, look, I ran a mobile application company. Like I know how big these clients are. Like, I don't want my first things.

SPEAKER_00: Going to get very hot.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, exactly. Like burning my ass, you know, sitting in my pocket trying to mine Ether. Right. So yeah, it was just very strange, these kind of conversations.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And kind of concurrently. So more aligned with our perspective consensus sort of grew an enterprise team which focused sort of on advising big corporates on blockchain and then implementing it for them. And we kind of worked with them on go to market even before the launch of Ethereum, more after. So we'll kind of hold on that discussion, maybe for a subsequent episode. But okay, what about. Do you guys have any specific memories of the hackathons? We did.

SPEAKER_02: So the first hackathon we did was in Greenpoint and we basically, it was sort of internal to consensus people and I think it was mostly interns that of kind had participated. We had a very crude version of our API working and it was really, you know, like, I think over, I think over a 48 hour period, no one could build anything basically. Like, like it was like. But I think the premise that people were coming up with to use our API to build stuff, we could see some potential in it. So like people are doing, you know, interesting things like incentivizing location based scavenger hunts and other kind of things. And we found that interesting enough that, you know, and I think this, that was in May, June of 2015 by that time. And then we figured out that there was, you know, the launch would probably happen in August of that year. And we were like, okay, let's take off all the input we got from that hackathon and do like a real hackathon, like get, you know, a bunch of participants, get a bunch of people involved and you know, try and get all the people from consensus, but people outside consensus involved. And we were kind of like targeting that day. So we were like furiously trying to make our product more stable and work and take all the input we got from that first one into the second one when we didn't know exact. I think the plan was to do it on the day of the launch of Ethereum and.

SPEAKER_00: Right before or right after? I can't remember.

SPEAKER_02: I, I think it was right after. Yeah, I think it was like two days after or something like that. But you know, it was, it was in the same timing of the launch basically. So I, you know, as far as I'm aware, that was like the first Ethereum hackathon.

SPEAKER_01: I remember maybe it was the second or third one. We met the Crane brothers.

SPEAKER_02: Oh yeah, yeah, that's right.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I think that was the one right after the launch.

SPEAKER_02: That was. Yeah, that was later.

SPEAKER_01: They.

SPEAKER_02: Didn't.

SPEAKER_01: They didn't want one at the launch. They won. So that hackathon where we met them was actually the first consensus conference hackathon.

SPEAKER_00: I don't think that's true. I think that one was later. I think they. Oh no, you were already.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, you're right, you're right. I think they came to the first. You, you're right. I think they came to that very first hackathon. Yeah. So I, I think. Or at least John did. Well, maybe.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. They came to the second one, the first one right after the launch. Right. This is funny. This is another foreshadowing for a future episode. But yes, the IBM, you know, they've been circling this this whole time and they do appear in the next episode if it comes at the consensus hackathon.

SPEAKER_02: Like, I remember us furiously and, and just the uncertainty of the launch. I was like, I remember we had many, many conversations like, is this thing ever going to launch? Like, we weren't sure if it would happen.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Do you remember? Okay, let's talk quickly about the mining that we did. And this was all for the company, you know. But do you, do you recall what we, we did at that time?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I totally remember. So I remember. Well, at some point up to the launch, we realized, okay, if we were going to help, if we were going to help businesses or other groups build applications on Ethereum, we would need ether to be able to pay for gas for those transactions. And so we're like, oh, we need to build a mining route. Right. I'll hand that over to you, Jim. I think that was.

SPEAKER_01: Karen and I drove up to Fries and picked up a bunch of components.

SPEAKER_00: We did. And, you know, we, we're kind of ready for it because we, I believe we had. You had helped me build just like a workstation.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Or two before. Basically, like the compile times on my laptop were double or quadruple what they were on the workstation. So it's made a big productivity difference. We went back and. Yeah, I think so. I moved closer to campus at that time. We took a couple different shots at mining. But what did you know, I think mine exploded, the power supply blew up. The graphics card was actually okay. Something happened to yours, I can't remember.

SPEAKER_01: But we got it going eventually. But the part that was funny I remember is that we spent like two or three days building these machines, getting it up, putting the software on, getting it running, hitting some problems. And it started like ether started to dribble in at that point in time. So we're like, oh, this is awesome. And then we called up Victor and he's like, yeah, in the last half hour I just like spun up a few machines at Amazon and I'm getting as much Ether as you Guys are.

SPEAKER_02: Well, it was more than a few machines. So, like, I remember watching you guys build this and like, thinking like, oh, like, this is good. Launch any day now, right? Like, so, like, I, I said, like, can someone give me an image of the Go client? So, and I took that image and I just like, put on Amazon and a bunch of Spot instances. And at some point I was like, running like. And I just bought as many Spot instances as were available. Like, what? Whatever met my price, I bought. And this was before, you know, mining was even known, that this was something that happened. So I could still get it pretty cheap. And there weren't. The blockchain itself was small enough that you could sync up pretty fast even if you were starting.

SPEAKER_01: None of this is stuff you could do today. In fact, none of this is.

SPEAKER_02: Exactly. And it stopped being effective. Like, I mean, there. Like, I remember at the point of the launch, I. You guys were saying, yeah, we got our first Ether. And I was like, do you see this graph? Like, you know, this is the total mining power of the Ethereum network. That large wedge, which was like 25 is me on Spotify.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, God, we should have, we should have cranked it up just like another couple weeks longer.

SPEAKER_02: Well, I think by the time, you know, three days have passed, I, I passed like several thousand dollars. Like, our AWS bill was like, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: It seems super expensive.

SPEAKER_02: It seems super expensive at the time. And like, I was like, oh, wow, like, this is good. But yeah, we should, I should have ran it like, you know, a month basically. And then. But it was, it was pretty amazing because, like, yes, I, I, you know, I'm not a DevOps guy, but I was like writing hundreds of machines the time and it was just amazing.

SPEAKER_00: One thing I, I struggle to remember. How did they communicate that the network was ready to launch? Was it like Twitter email? Like, how did we even know? Like, we kind of knew. This is why I brought it up before. They're like, okay, they're slowing down, they're getting ready, you know, But I don't.

SPEAKER_01: Remember how they communicated it, but we were pretty into. Involved in consensus at those days and everybody was talking about it and there were like multiple groups there that were getting ready to spin up lots of mining. And so there was no, there was no missing it at the time.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, sorry. Good.

SPEAKER_02: Sorry. Like, like I said, I think there was, but, like, I think they had announced the date, but there was still a lot of uncertainty. Whether they would meet that date or not. Right. And it turned out they did, like, that did turn out to be the date, but, like, everyone was kind of gearing up, but we were also, like, getting ready. Like, oh, you know, it might not happen that day. It might be a couple of days later. It could be a couple of months later. We just weren't sure.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, man, those. Those are some times for sure. Yeah. Okay, so I think this is a good wrapping point for this first episode. Hopefully we'll see if we get any feedback from the Internet at large whether we should keep going down this path. But, you know, quite the journey already. Lots of interesting things I've even remembered, you know, in the course of our couple hours here. Thanks, guys. Does feel like we should keep going with the story, but we'll see, you know, let's leave it as a cliffhanger. All of the excitement to come. Any final words?

SPEAKER_02: Well, I. I think, you know, it's funny, even if you look at the beginning, you see the same patterns now where there's this huge amount of inflow and then what seemed at the time like tons of hype, but now is like a trickle of hype and what seems like tons of capital, but now would be considered a trickle of capital. And then like a kind of overconfidence and then a tightening, but then, you know, real technical stuff gets done in the tightening. It's funny how that pattern has played out.

SPEAKER_00: So a couple times now.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, exactly.

SPEAKER_01: It's a funny type of cyclical. Tell you about the time we saw Vitalik threw his shirt at someone.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, that's a good story. Yes, the Vitalik short story is a good one. Alrighty, let's. Let's end it here. Thanks, guys. You know, we're doing this recording on a Sunday. Hope it entertains and informs the wider world. And we'll see you next time.