SPEAKER_00: What are you using? I use Restream. We try to use something and it's stream on Twitter, I think YouTube and LinkedIn at the same time.

SPEAKER_01: So we're using Streamyard to. We're using Streamyard and I'm just double checking.

SPEAKER_02: We have been screwing around with different tools trying to find anything that's seems a bit.

SPEAKER_03: None of them are perfect.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, that. I'll share the one. I don't know if you should try this one, but this one looks pretty. Pretty cool, pretty great.

SPEAKER_02: Because you're thinking there must be good software for this, right? It's such a common need. Like isn't there just an answer that just works.

SPEAKER_00: But the thing is like those platforms, they're not built with interoperability in mind.

SPEAKER_03: They don't like it.

SPEAKER_02: They want to tap you in.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, exactly. That's, that's, that's, that's. That's against our vision, you know, on.

SPEAKER_02: X there isn't even a means to download the bloody audio.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, it's.

SPEAKER_02: Why would you want to download it?

SPEAKER_00: You know, like that's something, you know, I guess the next step in maybe.

SPEAKER_02: Like you want to use it somewhere else.

SPEAKER_00: Are you seeing somebody else be able to own your data, you know, in all those platform, even own a query or just access, you know, Something I love about Google is like I can go. I can activate, you know, like the, the tracking, you know, but at least I can go and say, what. What did I do that week? I went in front of that restaurant or that store, it was pretty nice. And I can go and see and check I have access to that. It can be helpful. But most of the thing they have like thousand of data, but like they don't even share it with you.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: I find it quite, quite well.

SPEAKER_03: 501.

SPEAKER_01: We are live. So we're live. No, no, I'm ready. No, but that was a good cold intro. Right, so we have a very special guest today, but a special format because all of us for diff. For change. Our life in real life, in the same room. In the same room.

SPEAKER_02: Amazing.

SPEAKER_01: And you are a special guest. Dy.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, sure. So, yeah, we have here today with us Red 1 Meslan. Yes, Meslan, who is the executive director of the ea, the Enterprise Ethereum alliance, which all of us at this table have had a. Had a hand and a part in over the years.

SPEAKER_03: Healthy run.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_03: So, yeah, like it's eight years now.

SPEAKER_00: It was 2017. Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: February 2017 was the launch date on the 28th.

SPEAKER_03: There was pre work solidly before at least three months, maybe more.

SPEAKER_02: There were meetings I was part of in December and January. There were. I mean that, that those were the first big meetings.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_02: You know, with whatever 30, 40 people, crazy amounts. But yeah, like it really started probably at DEFCON 2 in October the previous year.

SPEAKER_03: There was the kickoff meeting at the J.P. morgan office, which was pretty big. And even before they were the closed door meetings at Microsoft.

SPEAKER_02: Right. So that public launch was February.

SPEAKER_03: It was February.

SPEAKER_00: But.

SPEAKER_02: But December there was a. There was an internal like one. And then JP Morgan was in January 2017. But yeah, like a lot of those initial contacts have happened at Devcon 2 in October the previous year.

SPEAKER_01: Well, in the Devcon 2.

SPEAKER_03: Oh yes.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So like basically, basically there was a lot of conversations there about figuring out how to bring on enterprises too. And there were a lot of interested parties. And yeah, like the, the group of people which was I think about six people that were interested, met at like a Starbucks just off site. And you know that was sort of the idea formation thing about the.

SPEAKER_02: And then Matt spoke of Newco held a little, little bar side event as well. Which. Do we have some technical issues?

SPEAKER_01: Oh, okay, hold on a second.

SPEAKER_03: I'm just gonna push.

SPEAKER_00: James is gonna tell everybody we have a technical issue.

SPEAKER_02: Everybody.

SPEAKER_01: I can. I was. I will fix that. Oh did I. I messed up the Twitter.

SPEAKER_02: You did a bad one.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I did a bad one. So everyone please join us on YouTube.

SPEAKER_03: Spaces at 5am Right.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_02: But yeah, Matt spoke. Held. Held a little event at one of the bars upstairs, which I went to and there were various others there. I don't know if you went to that one as well.

SPEAKER_01: I, I didn't go to that one. So I think it's. I think the main thing was that. Yeah, so I think the main thing I'm. I'm gonna try and fix this right now on Twitter live technical support, see if I can resolve it right now. If not, I did choose a.

SPEAKER_02: But also parallel in that because I was still working for the Ethereum foundation at the time, was that there was like an enterprise slack set up there which was actually started by Vitalik who afterwards said people kept badgering him about enterprise.

SPEAKER_01: That's right.

SPEAKER_02: So at some point he just dumped the ball in a stack in a slack and run away. That was the, that was the technique. So that was a. Not quite the same group. It was a larger group but slightly different.

SPEAKER_01: Nuko was part of that.

SPEAKER_02: Nuko was part of that also by.

SPEAKER_01: The way we should introduce ourselves.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Hi, I'm Bobson Wilson. I'm head of ecosystem at Stratum Card King.

SPEAKER_03: James Lubin, CEO of Black Ops. Victor, creators of Strato Mercado.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And Victor Wong, Chief Product Officer. Blackouts. So sorry back.

SPEAKER_00: But.

SPEAKER_02: But yeah, Amos as well.

SPEAKER_01: Do you remember them?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, we should check in on. I. I haven't thought about Amos until. In like several years. Until the moment.

SPEAKER_02: So the interesting thing about what they were doing. So that was like some Taiwan bank consortium thing.

SPEAKER_01: Yep.

SPEAKER_02: But then they. They did like work on like Chinese cryptography and stuff. Like they've got differing requirements. Right?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And Master Chain, which was in Russia, that was like a. A spare bank thing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Before they got sanctioned. I have a question because you, you have, you know, I was not at E at that time, and so it's very interesting for me to, you know, what were the hopes and really excitement that you see? You know, you were part of those early conversations. This was created 13, I think, companies. It's like a pretty, it was a pretty big event, you know.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: As you mentioned, you know, like J.P. morgan and everything. All those big names coming into the ecosystem and what were the hopes and really like the overall, like, atmosphere, you know, when the EA was created like eight years ago.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, I mean, so, I mean, consensus were very critical as well because, you know, they were doing a load of the enterprise, like, engagement stuff. Right. You've got many, many companies, like, starting to get interested in, hey, you know, we want to do a pilot, we want to get involved. So consensus were doing a lot of those. So they ended up having a lot of those connections and bringing those, those in together. But, but yeah, you, you know, over those months, you, you really had like, they got a hell of a lot of momentum really, really quick.

SPEAKER_03: So the observation during Devcon 2, when the idea was hatched, was basically that at least at the innovation lab level, a lot of the enterprises were just using and forking their own flavor of Ethereum. They had hacked their own consensus algorithms and security.

SPEAKER_02: And many guests.

SPEAKER_03: Many guests indeed. We learned later that like a lot of JP Morgan's quorum was initially built by Jeff Wilkie. He had like some kind of.

SPEAKER_02: And that was not announced at the time of Defcon 2. That was still behind the scenes for a few months, but happened just before the EA started. But yeah, you've got all of this stuff brewing up. I mean, for years earlier, like, if you think of like ERIS db, that became Monax, that became Hyperledger, Borough. So that was a permissioned ethereum client off POC 5 pre mainnet.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Mid 2014 of sticking in tendermint onto an EVM. So, yeah, like, you know, it was. It was all a bit smashed apart, but it was like the time is right for us to work together because we've all got the same needs.

SPEAKER_03: Us too. We had our own client and it got used in a bunch of the consensus consulting engagements at that time. And we started even then kind of tuning it for enterprise. And so I guess the idea was like, well, maybe enterprises won't adopt if there isn't a standard. Yeah. For all of this new stuff that they need that's above and beyond the base.

SPEAKER_01: Well, Ethereum clients, I think it was even beyond that. Like there was just tons of technical work going on in each individual company siloed to get Ethereum to do what they wanted to do in a private way. So everyone was holding on these things. And what came out of those early conversations at devcon was, wait, we're all doing similar things. Maybe if we all kind of work together we could do it faster and get this up faster. And that was all around private Ether.

SPEAKER_02: And I guess also like a marriage between like kind of customers of these things and builders.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Of saying you've got all these kind of startupy kind of companies that are making Ethereum things and you've obviously got big demand from really major enterprises to have this. But it's.

SPEAKER_01: There's.

SPEAKER_02: But yeah, on that standardization side, there was like nothing. And it's like you're all going to get vendor locked, like instantly and it'll all just be arbitrarily different and painful and horrible. So let's try and work out because. Well, at some point as well with, with Quorum, it was kind of like, you know, are we gonna like collaboratively do code bases as well? Like, you know, Hyperledger was another piece into this. Is that. Is that a few months earlier I've spent a bunch of time working on C relicensing C client to get back to Apache 2. So it could have been contributed into Hyperledger and we could have like gathered around that. That up. So the EA was kind of a backup, I guess, of like, right. We can't have this grand fusion, but there's enough happening on the Ethereum side that we can at least get all the Ethereum, you know, pieces together. And. And then, yeah, I guess it went quite quickly from, okay, we're not. We don't want to straight compete with Hyperledger. Having a shared code base also kind of like screws.

SPEAKER_03: No one wanted to. So I think, you know, in the spirit of spiciness, I think the enterprise users would have preferred a shared code base.

SPEAKER_02: Right.

SPEAKER_03: And they wanted to commoditize any difference among the startups out of existence so that they could never be vendor locked again. They've had these horrific, you know, IBM nightmares, Oracle nightmares over the years and they're just like not, not this time.

SPEAKER_01: We're not going to live through this.

SPEAKER_02: I mean also, you know, you have got that market pressure right. Of Corda coming out of IBM launching fabric.

SPEAKER_01: They were worried it would end up.

SPEAKER_03: That kind of, you know, nominally open source but quite proprietary.

SPEAKER_02: So those were both shooting for release in February 2017. So it's, that kind of timeline is like, right. We've got to get our together to be able to do like an Ethereum product thing that can have some hope against IBM and R3DA at that time.

SPEAKER_03: Like I remember one of our prominent enterprise users, EA members said, you know, yeah, they've got a call with you know, 300 people on it every week trying to sell into the big banks, let's say.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_03: And it's funny that all of the like Ethereum just survived all of this more or less not paying any attention and like, you know, the, this, this competition kind of came in.

SPEAKER_01: Well, I think there was another parallel thing that was happening at that devcon really were like the first like the kind of enterprise use cases we talk about today. Like for example, Santander talked about, you know, US dollar on chain which we all recognize as a stable coin now and.

SPEAKER_03: Tokenize bank deposit.

SPEAKER_00: You see Victor, I think that's a very cool parallel. Like you set the stage pretty well for like, you know, where it's coming from.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And where it started eight years ago you mentioned, you know, Innovation Labs, like starting to contribute to some codes we've known like the use cases that blockchain and Ethereum can solve for a long time. But it's only actually now and it's been for probably like for the last year that things have been really changing drastically.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And to, to take you know like your, your words for like when you say innovation that it's, it's not innovation labs anymore looking at, at you know, how they implement blockchain in their ecosystem. It's really like it's actually now and it's been for probably like for the last year that things have been really changing drastically.

SPEAKER_03: Thankfully like they're scared now so like they they better move or else.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, I don't know if it's like there's no there is. But there were some interesting, some interesting talk, you know, like when we were at Cybos, like the Swift conference.

SPEAKER_01: Like yeah, we should mention that because like you were just at Cybos and you're dealing with like what we think of as shred by institutional players and that's, you know, where you have a lot of communication. So like what were your impressions about where they're at with that? Because that's the other side that we talk about.

SPEAKER_00: The digital asset tokenization is definitely a hot topic. Everyone is looking because they know it's happening. They want to be involved and it's more. And now especially like there is less, there is less like regulatory, you know.

SPEAKER_03: The listeners may not know what CYBOS is.

SPEAKER_01: Oh yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So Cybos is the, is the big Swift conference. Swift, if you're not familiar, is it's a messaging system that a lot of 11,000 financial institutions around the world. It's actually a co op, it's a dao for traffi. Kudos to Danielle from Consensys who said that to me once.

SPEAKER_03: It is, although it's like, can we buy in now? I feel like.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, the token is having probably a bank license.

SPEAKER_03: The London Metal Exchange is like this too. It's like you want to sign up, you got to like buy a bunch of shares and like.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_03: You know, then there's an annual fee and whatnot and you have to like put someone there all the time.

SPEAKER_02: You have to join the trade guild.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes.

SPEAKER_02: You've got to do your.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, exactly. And so satbay conference is the, it's a big mecca of payments I would say every year. So you have all the big financial institution also like, you know, global financial institution, like you know, like clearinghouse settlements, like you work there, DTCC etc, but also like all the banks and they gather here and there is a lot of conversation. What is very interesting is actually Cybos and Swift is a very like kind of standard organization because what they do is like how we make sure like we send messaging across all of us that everyone is sure is going to understand. And so they used to have a different kind of messaging format and recently now they're migrating to something new which is ISO 222.

SPEAKER_01: Okay.

SPEAKER_00: Which is if you want to go and dive deeper into this, this is really like the how every financial institution want to discuss. They've been working on that spec for a long time and that's how anything that can touch finance from securities to payment, like they have to be qualified.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I think it's good to explain. So like most of finance gets cleared through messaging and it's like. So crypto people are used to like putting a transaction in and then it goes everywhere.

SPEAKER_00: Yes.

SPEAKER_03: It's not really like this.

SPEAKER_00: Oh yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, indeed. That's a very key point. Is that the process of, you know, what we call delivery versus payment in traditional finance, it's a pretty complex thing because how you make sure like when you deliver the money, the money has been received, that you receive the asset, that everything has been, you know, and it's a kind of a lot of dance because you receive message, you, you send another one. And it's not like how we used to do where in crypto we submit and it's actually an atomic transaction, which is like just one thing. And when the transaction is complete, you know, it's been executed, it's been delivered and all the parties. That is actually, you know, I give you the can. Well, I know, I know you've been giving me like the money.

SPEAKER_02: Exactly.

SPEAKER_00: You know, like where actually there is like a little bit dance. Well, I put the can here. Like you see the can that has been moving here, you send the money. And, and so the, the blockchain here offers such efficiencies because things that like where like, you know, like the T plus 1 or T plus 2 for some of some of those different exchange. Now you, you do it like. Well, depending on what chain you're going to deploy between a second to even like less than that.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And also Swift isn't a payments mechanism, right?

SPEAKER_00: No, it's a, it's a message.

SPEAKER_02: That's another common.

SPEAKER_03: Let me, I think interject with a.

SPEAKER_02: This specific example.

SPEAKER_03: I think they're biggest in fx, right?

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_03: So let's say I've got some USD, I want some Euro and we kind of like agree to a USD Euro trade. And so we like, I guess we look up whatever the pair is trading at and I think it's like I send my side of the trade with some unique ID to Swift and you do too. And then Swift like checks if it matches, it charges like seven bucks either way. If it does match, then it'll like tell us that it matched.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I don't think it's actually exactly this way. It's more a Swift offer. A type of envelope and a format of envelope and paper and ink that we know how to use and how we're Supposed to fill up some forms. Then how we trade those forms between different market participants. It's not much people like they're gonna be some, you know, corresponding banking that's gonna be like locally they can do cash and they're gonna. Everyone is gonna take their share.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. It's not moving the asset. It's just. It's like, like I have the USD on my bank list.

SPEAKER_00: On your bank talking to each other in a secure and compliant way for. Because it's also. Oh, you send that. You have to send like some specific messaging for like compliance that net. Then I send another one, say hey I checked there's information and you.

SPEAKER_02: You know a bunch of like local jurisdiction specific.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. A lot of different handshakes.

SPEAKER_01: You know I like the way someone described it's like a funny TCP handshake. Yeah. It's sort of like what they're doing is tracking the transfers but no money is actually moving. And then they have a list of IOU's. So like when, when I send a swift transaction to from like let's say I send a hundred dollars to you and friends and I go to my bank, I put in a hundred dollars. The money doesn't go anywhere. You're just.

SPEAKER_03: Oh yeah.

SPEAKER_00: So I have to write USD off. They let at the end of the day.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Rtgs, they're gonna do like the transfer actually. Exactly.

SPEAKER_03: That's like a different messaging.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: If you research and I'm not a swift expert but I have learned that the last couple of months, you know I've done like a little bit more like deep dive. And it's fascinating because there is such a huge dance between two transfer of money because you have the money in your bank account, but then actually central bank money. Then you have also the deposit money. Those what you call M0M1, M2. And so all of that is pretty complex. And then we're just talking about payment here, talking about securities or those other financial instruments that you can exchange. Also using blockchain in a very efficient way. But that's you know, using stablecoin you can make everything super simple. And also one misconception maybe I would love to to mention is like the you know like we, we talked about stablecoin and CBDCs.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: They actually exactly the same thing. It's just in a different context. A CBDC is a stable coin for central bank.

SPEAKER_02: And it's just the issuer.

SPEAKER_00: It's just the issuer is not the same as you know, we never going to retouch like CBDCs because this is like the, the money, the. The money of banks. If you, if you say. But almost I think from a technical level it's very like almost like a copy paste of the same contract. The mechanism it's, it's not but we create like a whole different language and terminology for that. But they're actually very similar and funny fact those CBDCs they've been doing you know like the. I think the baby needed to grow. You know like said DEFCON 2. So it was a 2 years old kid Ethereum and we were like hey come in here. You can manage like the most critical infrastructure of the planet which is our money and how we do trade and you can do all of this. And, and I think like the Ethereum Foundation I have to give them credit like they yes for a long time they were saying hey guys, you're not considering the enterprise everything. But I think they did, they did the right thing because they protected you know like that baby so it could grow and it become like you know now we had an age of you know it's more mature. It's more than 10 years. It's still like not even a teenager like the analogy was like with human is going to take some limits. But we had a point now where we have a technology and Ethereum is really a capacity to answer all the challenges that are facing. You know that we're blocking with institution to adopt which is you know while scalability, privacy like composability and interoperability like the four points that you had in the ARC paper from Circle. And now we have this just last week Zksync announced up to 15,000 TPS and there is some new thing that almost every week going on. So we really like now the technology when it can look say well I need to make sure this is private. I need to make sure this is, this is going to be executed in a seamless way. Also the decentralization it's more about the way they look at it is more like the vendor locking. I would say the best analogy is that you want to make sure the infrastructure you rely on is going to be able to absorb your activity but also be resilient enough. This we still have some work because it's definitely and I understand the perspective of institution to deploy on it like public infrastructure. You know at first when Wikipedia showed up like you know, 2020, 25 years ago, something like that I think. I mean I remember I was at my, in my college of like my engineering college. I was at the board and we were talking about having wiki, you know, for doing some articles. And they were like those very academic guys said this is, this is unacceptable. It's not the whole French accent and this is unacceptable. Whenever I'm going to do this, anyone can put any information. It's not trust.

SPEAKER_01: To be clear, you are French. Yeah. You are allowed to.

SPEAKER_00: You're allowed. And so, and but they were in French like they were very like, you know, and protecting this. And at that time I said, well, we cannot trust, you know, something that's being built collectively like this. But now we know you have to take a grain of salt. But it's actually much more accepted, you know, like that those are like reliable source of information and that you can have things that are being built publicly that actually very resilient.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, sorry, I was just gonna ask like. But like there's always this like gap between what traditional institutions understand about like we all understand what's been capable for a really, really long time. But are there still gaps or do you think that's been closed now? Like is the baby grown up fully or. But like, but even if even like when the capability is there, there's still like a knowledge gap. I think sometimes, you know.

SPEAKER_00: Well, let me put it this way. There is about. If you combine all the different type of money, $123 trillion of cash around the world, right. 300 billions are on chain, right. So the numbers talk for itself. We're very early. So there is people like they, they can. I think we, we still have like a lot of work to do in terms of education. But by education I mean really talking from product perspective. What business problem I can solve for you, how it's going to be done, what is going to be the maintenance after how like how you're going to deal with a very specific use cases. And so you can have some teams that already have an understanding what you can achieve. But we still need to provide I think as an ecosystem more structuring who you can work with the different vendors, what services they can do, where they can help, what's the type of contract you're going to have after. And really giving that overall perspective of a new entrant in the market. And so some of them, they understand very well and they have already like some pretty detailed question, you know even like asking me power red one we need to increase like the contract size from 24 to 40, 48 kilobytes. And we have some, you know, like those, those stack overflow Issue like well known.

SPEAKER_03: So the stack depth limit was always a problem.

SPEAKER_00: And so there is some of them it's this but but then some other ones in this more product they're going to ask me okay why should I go on an L2 what is the L1? What does it mean? And what about those chain. What are the primitives explaining like? Well if you build on any L2s you actually going to choose maybe one vendor in some way but you can completely move your asset free among all the ecosystem the wallets are going to be the same. A lot of things are going to be equivalent that you don't have to rebuild. And so those are things you need to explain. Some of them maybe people they're going to say well what is this? This is just like some scammy or something like that. I think you can find all the layers. But now people they also they see the potential of what you can do with digital assets tokenization. And for people who are a little bit looking around I'm very excited to see what's going to happen in the next six to 12 months because Genius Tech was signed July 15or something like this cavity Act. I think it's still, still a bit ongoing but so now we like the like and we, we can also hear that like there's really a companies from either direction say okay how, how we're going to implement this. The fintech is also moving so they're, they're, they're like the fact that they're building their L. Even if they're building the L1 I wish they would do some L2s and my door will always be open when, when you want to consider that there, there is a pretty great tool that can help but that's going to push the market and from financial institution to really adopting this. There is an organization like dtcc, the biggest clearinghouse in the world. All the securities in the world basically are being cleared over there. They released an incredible product like 4 months ago in April. The great collateral where they have a collection of hundreds of smart contract that allows you to clear and to make some margin call and collateral management from different jurisdiction which is a fantastic use case when you, you see I'm not, I'm not a collateral management expert but I understand the value like how this unlocks. You know like you, you actually have some, something that you can take from your, your bank in Japan that you're going to post for something in the US because you have a market event and this is something you would not even imagine before and now you can do it and it's like compliant. It's actually like it's legal and then that can unlock so much efficiencies. And so that's in the next like 12 months. That's going to be like huge game changer.

SPEAKER_01: So it sounds like you know, the lid has been lifted off and there's a ton of demand but it's like walking down the path to supply that demand. That's the part that people are figuring out right? Like with is that right.

SPEAKER_00: Like I think the, it's such a very transformative technology for how those business operate. There is also how I'm going to make money.

SPEAKER_01: Okay. So there's a fear element to it, right?

SPEAKER_00: It's like, well now I can have like check out like yeah, I mean I'm a PSP provider.

SPEAKER_03: Like let me ask you this. So in the early days it felt like there was a focus on more like back office use cases. Like, like yeah, how do I move the collateral from like my Japan regional branch to my, you know, whatever.

SPEAKER_02: Business process improvements.

SPEAKER_03: Business process improvements. And I felt that there's eventually became a, and I think this started like 2020, 2021 a shift for big corporations wanting top line use cases like, like Nike was the first to like sell a ton of NFTs. And then you're seeing like I think like the digital asset treasuries are a kind of genius way for a token to like, like the company doesn't have to ipo but like there could be a token and there can be something that's, that provides the traditional protections of equity that's publicly traded. And then you didn't, you could just leave this part sort of where it was and somehow there's kind of like a merger going on and you know this is a, creating good top line revenue for investment banks and you know, et cetera, et cera.

SPEAKER_00: That.

SPEAKER_03: People want the efficiency to compete or like are they starting to think about it as like a new revenue line or you know like transformed revenue line or something?

SPEAKER_00: Well that's, that's a billion trillion dollar question right there. I, I don't have like the answer. What I could say is I see, I see how like I think if you look at you know, operational optimization, it's more than that. If you capital flow more seamlessly, you make more money in a financial float. So the, the, the, the more you have a flow of your money easy, the more you're going to be able to, to make Some to make some because you're gonna unlock you know some, some. Some capital improvements yet I think and from like conversation I've seen and, and where where like the still don't have like the golden do say hey that's gonna remix a little bit of like all the different people and intermediaries and people working because if you. If you suddenly have something that is being done a much more efficient way. Well some different intermediates they might have like to rethink of where the way of doing their business. This is not going to happen from one day to another. What I can say is that because we're going to have those new form of working with digital assets that's going to more like being a golden era for opportunities to build pretty fantastic product and the people that understand pretty well the ethos of the Ethereum ecosystem and also blockchain in general and like some operation in traditional finance and be able to bridge those two.

SPEAKER_02: You.

SPEAKER_00: You're going to be able to bring like some amazing amazing product. And that's what we see a little bit more with convergence. You know of AAVE that is that doing like a collateral product with Horizon and and unlocking you know like you. You have like figure like you have a spy core. You have some. Some of like how as. As we're going to have like now some assets that are on chain that maybe you can loan and you can collateralize and you can borrow money and you can have some liquid liquidity from in front of those assets while being the actual. And also like I want to stress like we do we say RWAs. RWAs. RWAs. There is a lot of we need probably to find some new language because.

SPEAKER_01: There is you know how I feel about that. I think the RWA term is so broad.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, this can be rwa. Yeah it does get. And I can also take a picture of my I guess my bank account and say hey this is a tokenization of my bank account. And so there is RWAs but most of them they actually kind of elaborate IOUs and not like. And now we're moving towards more and more having some standards and like things like like the. It's the legal tent.

SPEAKER_03: Like yeah you want the native issue.

SPEAKER_00: The token is the. Is the.

SPEAKER_02: Is the.

SPEAKER_00: Is the legal claim to the assets.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: And that's when this happens and when like focusing on that that's going to unlock some pretty incredible things because the.

SPEAKER_01: Like the.

SPEAKER_00: And you connect this with defy maybe with some you you're gonna always need some form of AML KYC and everything. Like, like the, the, the defi. Like the, like we. There's none for the last year. It's, they're probably going to have like two of those but once you connect this I think that's going to be pretty incredible.

SPEAKER_01: But how do the institutions feel about like obviously as the head of the EA and you feel strongly about Ethereum too, right? Like the Ethereum ecosystem broadly of L1. Like how do they feel about that? Do they see any other. You know like we know that Ripple has tried to attract that interest for a really long time. Like are they kind of sold on Ethereum at this point or are they looking. Are they still kind of needing to be convinced?

SPEAKER_00: I've heard like several executive at Presentation A.T. s saying hey, you know like Ethereum is the standard. You know EVM is the standard. This is the, the ecosystem. Having said that and as you know decision makers, they also want to make sure like they keep the door open and not, not being locked. So they, they move progressively. You know, 60% of the stable coin issuance and is on Ethereum I think probably 85 to 90% of all WA. It's, it's the same some similar statistics about Defi activities that's you know like electric capital. Like yeah you can see the graph like three times more like than, than any other ecosystem in terms of like builders and everything. So that's the most radiant. Radiant and an advanced you know, ecosystem in terms of research on every, every facet. And so that's that they know, they recognize but it doesn't mean that we need to keep educating to keep like right. You know, working with the EF for instance like they've been incredible work for the last few months of really like packaging the message in a better way that can be more digestible. But there's more like some work for instance like you know like the protocol team, they're already addressing so many of the, of the fear like can have some, some different like you know, digital asset manager in financial institution. But how we bring that message to the right people, package it in a way that it's easy to understand. That's some, that's some of the, of the work that is being done as we speak and, and that's going to really help, you know like continuing solidifying, you know like that dominance position. But to also answer your question, like some of those institutions they say hey we want to be multi chain. We want to look at everything which I think it's, it's absolutely fair and I would do the same if I were in their shoe. So. Okay, well we, they have some different assessment, you know, criteria and they say well we're going to take this chain, this chain, this chain, this chain and, and then we'll see.

SPEAKER_02: I mean go back to beyond evm. I mean you've obviously got competition between Ethereum and other EVM flavors. What, what, what is the competition outside of that? Because I know there's, you know, you've obviously got competition within that. But.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: What do you hear?

SPEAKER_02: Institutions doing non EVM things as well.

SPEAKER_03: Just like Canton is around. I don't know what they're using. Like do institutions use salon at all? Well, I know, but does DA still have its own like big proprietary ish stack?

SPEAKER_02: It's not proprietary anymore, but it's. Yeah, well, Hedera. Using Hedera.

SPEAKER_03: What do you hear?

SPEAKER_02: Competitive.

SPEAKER_00: Okay. Canton is probably the one, the most advanced in terms of like, you know, connection with the, the rest of the ecosystem. And I would say like not the rest, but the traditional finance they have, they have like a way it's structured though. It's, it's, it's something I still don't completely understand. You can be a validators, have some tokens that they're going to exchange on some private market and so some form of revenue and, and then they have already like that. It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a consortium, you know, like It's a Quorum V2, I would say. And, and they, they've been able to bring it into their ganabarance like a lot of the different financial institution.

SPEAKER_01: So.

SPEAKER_00: But once again, and if you ask me, I'm biased of course, but this is a, this is an ecosystem. Like yes, the Canton code is open source and everything but. Well, you still building on a technology that is not, not super like very like there's not a lot of people, you know, like when are you going to be like the, the, the CIO of a company and you need to have some maintenance or something. It's going to be what like 20 guys in a country that can do this, some work on this. And so that, that, that's the way I look at this. But like the, I think like Solana, I'm not sure with the institution.

SPEAKER_03: I don't hear anything institutional from Solana, but it seems popular nonetheless.

SPEAKER_01: Oddly enough like Ripple has been trying to do this for a long time, but I don't hear them brought up in the conversation that much.

SPEAKER_02: Nobody ever used Ripple.

SPEAKER_00: I've been in blockchain not as long as you guys, but really since 2019. And I spent like almost four years at Chainsafe, you know, very authentic like you know, builders like crypto native protocol development and I, I've been to conferences, you know, with the engineers and I asked them in a very candid way say have you ever built on a. On Ripple or on. On some of their. And and I had conversation with the engineers at Chainsafe and we had some polls and we had some conversation in the slack. I remember and no one really came up with some very smart.

SPEAKER_02: Just got an infinite war chest for marketing. Well and lobbying.

SPEAKER_01: I mean at one point one of the Cyboses I went to years and years ago, right Ripple was supposed to have a huge booth and you know like I guess Swift decided oh they're too much of a competitor so they kicked them out. And this wasn't.

SPEAKER_03: They were calling themselves the Swift killer.

SPEAKER_01: Right For a while they decided. You know what, we're just going to run our own conference in parallel with Cybos. They put a parallel conference and Vitalik was speaking at their conference and I.

SPEAKER_02: Remember at the Ripple one.

SPEAKER_01: At the Ripple one and I remember they had buses in from the Cy Cont like taking you to where their new conference was. And I remember like seeing Vitalik like ran across like looking for this conference because like it was in this new place and like we were all trying to. For I remember like waving him like over Europe. So it's, it's quarter people still using Corda Archery. Right.

SPEAKER_00: Like it's been bought out by Selena. Corda is Selena now.

SPEAKER_02: I don't think really. I, I don't think, I don't think they would, they would approach it in those terms. I think it's a partnership and a collaboration.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: That we're not.

SPEAKER_02: Absolutely. Absolutely. They weren't bought by.

SPEAKER_01: Not, not part of. But yes, but I mean I, I.

SPEAKER_02: Will say we are using fabric still.

SPEAKER_00: Well yes, behind, behind the the scene like the fabric is still like very present. You know I think central banks and, and those, those type of more very close environment you know if even I. I'm not sure bis we know bank of in like international settlement which is a. You know, for those who don't know it's like 40 different international bank that work together to, to optimize I would say like the collaboration and, and, and, and exchange. But they had like a project Agora that they started a couple of like months ago. Those are like institution where it takes like much longer time.

SPEAKER_02: I think they're starting a new project.

SPEAKER_00: That'S not the same the same agara but I would imagine like maybe they were having some POCs before. I know some few central banks they run you know like using fabric you know like the. It's probably like the hyperledger the fabric.

SPEAKER_02: You know like probably like the asbestos isn't it? It's just going to take years to work that out.

SPEAKER_01: You need people in suits to like. I will say I. I think we're almost at 45 minutes. Re's been very generous with this time. I think we asked do you have any final thoughts that you want to.

SPEAKER_00: Share with actually on fabric? I know like IBM is working on a bridge between fabric to main to. It's called Fabric X.

SPEAKER_02: Okay.

SPEAKER_00: To Ethereum so Well you can see that online, right?

SPEAKER_02: Well one of that big cell at New York blockchain week in 2018 was there was that EVM integration right that they did.

SPEAKER_00: So if to answer your question and like EVM and Ethereum is really the standard as everyone that's that's what they're saying. You know like you go through like some different stages. You have like the Chief Innovation Officer of like Swift and some, some different.

SPEAKER_01: Institutions they understand that they're like that and that's that.

SPEAKER_00: That's what they say. You know I was really everywhere I went on all those different panels. You know we had a panel at 8:30 on my permissionless various private network. It was hosted by, by Applied Blockchain, a member of the ea. There was like Citibank, Linux Foundation, Decentralized Trust, UBX and, and me and it was the, we were full. There were people standing up and, and there was you know the Swift Innovation Officers, some other banks that came to talk to us. So people, they, they understand Ethereum is definitely seen as like the standard and the place where you want to build because that's where you have access to the most equity, the most users the most vibrant defy ecosystem, which is something that is getting closer, I think and say, well, maybe there is some way to make some money here. I don't know exactly how, but there is some, there is some, there is some, there is some potential. So I think the future is very bright for us and I think that.

SPEAKER_02: Ties very nicely back to the start of the conversation and about the thoughts for the EA and so on. Was something that Jeremy Miller said in the opening speech on the opening day.

SPEAKER_01: Was.

SPEAKER_02: Think of this as being like a router, an Internet intranet. There's no reason why suitably modular code basis shouldn't serve all of these use cases, public and private. And what we did not want to happen was, and I remember being driven very much by this was saying let's not have arbitrarily different code bases for these different things because we can't be asked. Having that conversation and making the effort to try and bridge those worlds. And that was really coming from that fabric and cord a competition of these big enterprises basically saw being told, you Ethereum guys have got to get your stuff together or we're going to get mandated to use this other stuff. And it doesn't matter what you want, it's like the spending will have been spent and it's never coming back. So I think it's, to my mind it's like really superb to see where we are. That's what we were thinking. That was kind of the goal is that this can be a standard for everything. And yeah, things were immature and maybe you needed to be doing consortium chains and you needed to take these baby steps on the way and wait for the tech to catch up. But really it's like this can be.

SPEAKER_03: The answer for everything.

SPEAKER_02: So yeah, and I think that's where.

SPEAKER_00: We are and we're talking more and more, you know, like Ethereum foundation has done an incredible job. They have like an enterprise team also like they're having conversation with everyone and they can have like they have access to all the different leaders. And this has been very pretty fantastic. And so the more we discuss about this and say, hey, you know, there is no CEO of Ethereum, it's not a private company, there is no CEO of Internet. You know, they all use Linux, right? So that's that, that's something that is like catching up more and more and the more you know, we're going, that's also like the mission at what we do at ea, you know, like going to have this conversation or doing events, like bringing some people together from like a few events that we do and we try to really mix like defy traditional finance institution like pure Ethereum players and have all those people talking together. That's how we make that you know moving forward.

SPEAKER_01: Well on that note I think we'll wrap up but where can people find more about you and ea?

SPEAKER_00: Well it the website of we are present on all the social media like the website is like ENT and East alliance.org we have the same handle like on Twitter on LinkedIn. I'm also on LinkedIn and Twitter and try to post you know like often some few articles and some insights and there's some more work that I'm going to put like together in a couple of weeks around RWAS and everything and and also always looking for some, some like large institution that would like to collaborate on some writing pieces. Yeah so we can really put some like thought leadership and helping you know explaining what's. What's being done like and I think bridging you know like the Ethereum world with a traditional finance is also like something that we're pretty excited to do in a couple of weeks.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, that's awesome.

SPEAKER_00: We'll be also in Singapore Fintech week next month in defcon in Argentina and we'll be also in Abu Dhabi for finance week.

SPEAKER_01: Cool. And Bob, where can people find you?

SPEAKER_02: So yeah I'm on Twitter Sam's my name Bob Summerwill with a W I L L not Vil not Tom O Will.

SPEAKER_01: Not the German spelling Karen K.

SPEAKER_03: James Lubin on X YouTube etc and.

SPEAKER_01: You can find me on X at vicvic the number 4 w o n G thank you for joining us for our first in person roundtable. Thanks again. That's awesome. Thanks for coming. Take care.

SPEAKER_00: That was pretty cool to be in Bush week again.